Adam Smith was the last person to get money from a group of investments called annuities. You can raise more money with tontines than with annuities for individual lives. An annuity that lets you benefit if someone else dies is actually worth more than one for just one person's life. Since people usually believe they will live a long time, these types of annuities often sell for more than they should. In places where the government raises money by giving out annuities, tontines are usually preferred over individual life annuities.

In France, a lot more of the public debt is made up of life annuities compared to England. A report from the parliament of Bordeaux to the king in 1764 said that France's total public debt was about 2,400 million livres. Out of that, around 300 million was for life annuities, which is one-eighth of the total debt. The annuities themselves are estimated to be about 30 million a year, which is a quarter of the 120 million that is thought to be the interest on the whole debt. These numbers might not be exact, but since they come from a respected group, they can be seen as close to the truth. The difference in how France and England borrow money isn’t because one cares more about paying off debt; it’s really about what the lenders want.

In England, the government is located in the biggest trading city in the world, so merchants are usually the ones lending money to the government. They lend money to grow their businesses, not to lose money. They would only lend if they thought they could sell their share in a new loan for a profit. But if they were only getting life annuities instead of permanent ones, they might not be able to sell them for a profit. If they got an annuity based on their own life, they would probably lose money because no one would pay the same amount for an annuity based on someone else’s life if they are the same age and health. An annuity based on someone else’s life is equal in value to both the buyer and seller, but its value starts to go down over time.