Adam Smith says that some princes didn’t get along with the pope in Rome. Because of this, they were able to change things in their own lands and weaken the church, which didn’t have much support from regular people anymore. The pope had upset some smaller princes in northern Germany, thinking they weren’t important enough to worry about. So, these princes started the reformation in their areas.

In Sweden, a guy named Gustavus Vasa kicked out the tyrant Christiern II. and the archbishop of Upsal. The pope supported the bad leaders, but Gustavus Vasa had no trouble bringing the reformation to Sweden. Later, Christiern II. was removed from the throne in Denmark because people didn’t like him there either. The new king, Frederic of Holstein, got revenge by doing what Gustavus Vasa did.

In places like Berne and Zurich, where the leaders didn’t have issues with the pope, they easily started the reformation. Before this, some church leaders had done something really shady that made people dislike them. 

At this tough time, the pope tried hard to be friends with powerful kings in France and Spain. The king of Spain was also the emperor of Germany. With their help, the pope managed, though it was really hard and involved a lot of fighting, to slow down the reformation in his areas. He also wanted to keep good relations with the king of England. But since he had to be careful not to upset Charles V., the king of Spain and emperor of Germany, he couldn’t support the pope too much. 

Henry VIII. didn’t fully agree with the reformation ideas, but he still used their popularity to shut down monasteries and get rid of the pope’s power in England. This made the reformation supporters happy, even if he didn’t go all the way. Later, when his son took over, they easily finished what Henry VIII. had started.

In some places, like Scotland, where the government was weak and not liked, the reformation was strong enough to change not just the church but also the government that tried to support it. Among the reformation supporters, there were people all over.