The Wealth of Nations

The value of silver compared to corn probably went up a bit before the last century ended. It seems to have kept rising for most of this century too, but the bounty system made that increase less noticeable than it could have been.

In years when there’s a lot of corn, the bounty causes more corn to be exported, which makes the price of corn go higher than it normally would. The goal of this system was to support farming by keeping corn prices up, even when there’s a lot of it available.

However, during years when there’s not much corn, the bounty is usually stopped. Still, it must have affected prices in those years. The extra exports during good years often prevent the abundance from making up for the shortages in bad years.

So, in both good and bad years, the bounty makes corn prices higher than they would naturally be based on farming conditions. If the average price of corn in the first sixty-four years of this century has been lower than in the last sixty-four years of the last century, it would have been even lower without the bounty.

But without the bounty, farming conditions might have been different. I’ll explain how this system affected farming later when I talk more about bounties. For now, I just want to point out that the rise in silver’s value compared to corn isn’t just something that happened in England. It also happened in France around the same time, and three dedicated people who tracked corn prices noticed it too. 

In France, though, exporting grain was banned until 1764, so it’s hard to believe that the same drop in prices happened there because of the encouragement to export, especially since they couldn’t do that.

It might make more sense to think of the changes in corn prices as being caused by a slow increase in the real value of silver in Europe, rather than a drop in the real value of corn. Corn is often a better way to measure value over time than silver or other goods. After the discovery of the rich mines in America, corn prices went up.