Adam Smith

People think that the recent changes in gold coins were not as big of a deal as they seemed. Let’s say, for example, that the total amount of gold and silver was around £30,000,000. If we used our money to keep fighting the war, that money would have had to leave the country and come back at least twice in about six or seven years. If this is true, it shows that the government doesn’t really need to worry about keeping money safe. Even if all that money left and came back twice in such a short time, nobody would have noticed.

During this time, the flow of money didn’t seem any different than usual. Most people who needed money had enough to pay for it. In fact, profits from trading with other countries were higher than normal throughout the war, especially towards the end. This led to a lot of trading in all the ports of Great Britain, which caused the usual problem of not having enough money. Many people wanted money but didn’t have enough to buy it or the ability to borrow it. Because it was hard for people who owed money to get loans, it was also tough for those who were owed money to get paid back. However, gold and silver were usually available for those who had something valuable to trade for them.

So, the huge costs of the recent war were mostly covered not by sending gold and silver out of the country, but by sending British goods instead. When the government or their agents made a deal with a merchant to send money to another country, the merchant would usually try to pay his foreign contact with goods instead of gold and silver. If British goods weren’t wanted in that country, he would try to send them to another country where he could get a good deal. Sending goods that fit the market usually makes a good profit, while sending gold and silver rarely does. When gold and silver are sent abroad to buy things, the merchant makes money from selling the returns. But if they are just sent to pay a debt, there’s no return and no profit. So, it makes sense for merchants to find ways to pay their debts by sending goods instead of gold and silver.