Adam Smith

People often say that apothecaries make a lot of money, but that’s not always true. The big profits they seem to have are often just fair pay for their work. Being an apothecary requires a lot of skill and trust. They help everyone, especially the poor, and even the rich when things aren’t too serious. So, their pay should match their skills and the trust people put in them. Most of the time, their profit comes from how much they charge for their medicines. 

In a busy town, the best apothecary might sell drugs that only cost him around thirty or forty pounds a year. Even if he sells them for three or four hundred pounds, or even more, that profit might just be his fair pay for the work he does, added to the price of the drugs. So, a lot of what looks like profit is really just his wages.

In a small seaside town, a little grocery store owner might make forty or fifty percent profit on a hundred pounds of stock, while a big wholesaler in the same town might only make eight or ten percent on ten thousand pounds. The grocery store is important for the local people, and there might not be enough demand for a larger business. The owner needs to not only make a living but also earn enough for the skills he has. 

Besides having some money to start, he needs to know how to read, write, and do math. He also needs to understand many different types of goods, their prices, and where to get them cheaply. He has to know as much as a big merchant, but he can’t grow into that role because he doesn’t have enough money to invest. Earning thirty or forty pounds a year isn’t too much for someone with those skills. If you take that from his profits, what’s left might just be normal profits from his stock. Again, most of what looks like profit is really just his wages.

The difference between profits in small shops and big wholesale businesses isn’t as big when there’s more money involved. When a grocery store has ten thousand pounds to invest, the grocer’s wages are just a small part of the overall profits. So, in bigger cities, the prices of goods sold in small shops are often just as cheap, or even cheaper, than in wholesale stores.