The Wealth of Nations

A person usually only pays for workers who actually produce something useful. They spend money on productive jobs. Money that is meant to make a profit or rent can support both productive and unproductive workers.

When someone uses their money as capital, they expect to get it back with some profit. So, they only spend it on productive workers. Once the money has served its purpose for them, it becomes income for those workers. If they use any of that money to pay unproductive workers, that money is no longer part of their capital and is instead set aside for personal use.

Unproductive workers, and those who don’t work at all, are supported by income. This income comes from two main sources: first, from the annual produce meant to provide revenue to specific people, like landowners or business owners; second, from money that was supposed to replace capital and support productive workers, but when it reaches them, any extra can be used to support either productive or unproductive workers. 

So, even regular workers, if they earn enough, can afford to hire someone to help them or spend money on entertainment, which supports unproductive workers. They might also pay taxes, which helps support other unproductive workers who are more respected and useful, but still don’t produce anything. However, any money that was meant to replace capital won’t go to unproductive workers until it has already been used to pay productive workers. A worker has to earn their wages through actual work before they can spend any of it this way. Usually, this extra money is small. Productive workers don’t have a lot of spare cash, but they do have some. When it comes to taxes, the number of workers can make up for how little each one contributes. 

The rent from land and profits from businesses are the main ways that unproductive workers get their support. These are the two types of income that people usually have the most of. Both types could support either productive or unproductive workers, but it seems like they often prefer to support the unproductive ones. Wealthy landowners usually support more idle people than hardworking ones. Even rich merchants, although...