The Wealth of Nations

People shouldn’t have to deal with unfair treatment without a way to fight back. Some thoughtful people have complained about the law that controls where workers can live and work, saying it’s a problem for everyone. But it hasn’t caused as much public outcry as other issues, like the misuse of general warrants, which is a different kind of unfairness. Almost every poor person in England over the age of forty has probably felt really mistreated by this poorly designed law about settlements at some point in their life.

To wrap up this long section, I want to point out that in the past, wages were set by broad laws across the whole country and then by specific orders from local judges. But now, those practices are pretty much gone. Doctor Burn says that after over four hundred years, it’s clear we should stop trying to strictly control something that can’t really be limited that way. If everyone doing the same job got paid the same, there would be no motivation to work harder or be creative.

Still, some laws try to control wages in certain jobs and places. For example, a law from King George III says that tailors in London and nearby can’t pay their workers more than two shillings and sevenpence halfpenny a day, unless there’s a public mourning. When the government tries to set rules about pay between bosses and workers, they usually listen to the bosses. So, when the rules help workers, they’re fair, but sometimes they aren’t when they help the bosses. 

For instance, the law that says bosses must pay their workers in cash instead of goods is fair. It doesn’t really hurt the bosses; it just makes them pay the real value in money that they sometimes pretended to pay in goods. This law is good for workers, but the law from King George III is better for the bosses. When bosses team up to lower workers’ pay, they often make secret agreements to not pay more than a certain amount. If workers tried to do the same thing and agreed not to accept a certain wage, the law would punish them harshly. If the law were fair, it would treat the bosses the same way. But the law from King George III supports the rules that bosses sometimes try to set up through these agreements. Workers complain that it puts the best and hardest-working people at a disadvantage.