The Wealth of Nations

The value of goods can change a lot because of competition, customers, and many other factors. This can happen whether the goods are being transported by sea or land, or even if they are just sitting in a warehouse. Because of this, the value can change not just from year to year, but even from day to day or hour to hour. Figuring out the average profit for all the different businesses in a big country is really hard. It’s nearly impossible to know what those profits were in the past or a long time ago.

Even though it’s tough to know the exact average profits from the past or present, we can get some idea from how much interest people pay on money. A good rule to remember is that if people can make a lot of money using their money, they will usually pay a lot to borrow it. But if they can’t make much, they won’t pay as much. So, when the interest rates in a country go up or down, the usual profits from businesses will likely change too. If interest rates go down, profits will probably go down, and if they go up, profits will likely go up as well.

Back in the time of Henry VIII, any interest over ten percent was illegal. Before that, people sometimes charged more. During Edward VI's reign, all interest was banned due to religious reasons. But this ban didn’t really help and might have made the problem of high-interest loans worse. The law from Henry VIII was brought back during Queen Elizabeth’s time, and ten percent stayed the legal limit until King James I reduced it to eight percent. After the Restoration, it went down to six percent, and later to five percent under Queen Anne. These changes seemed to make sense because they followed what was happening in the market. Since Queen Anne’s time, five percent has been a bit higher than the usual rate. Before the recent war, the government borrowed money at three percent, while people with good credit borrowed at rates between three and a half to four and a half percent.

Since Henry VIII’s time, the country’s wealth and income have been growing steadily, and it seems to be speeding up. Not only has it been growing, but it’s been getting faster over time. Wages for workers have also been going up during this time, and in most areas of trade and manufacturing, things have been improving.