The Wealth of Nations

When it comes to ground rent, it’s usually not much more than what the land would earn if it were used for farming. In country homes near big cities, the rent can be higher because of the nice location or scenery. Ground rents are usually the highest in the capital city and in areas where lots of people want to live, whether it’s for work, fun, or just to show off.

If there’s a tax on house rent that tenants have to pay, it won’t really change the rent that builders charge for new houses. If builders can’t make a fair profit, they’ll stop building houses, which would make the demand for new homes go up and help bring their profits back in line with other jobs. This tax wouldn’t just hit the ground rent; it would be shared between the person living in the house and the landowner.

Let’s say someone thinks they can pay up to sixty pounds a year for rent. If there’s a tax of four shillings for every pound of rent, that means they’d actually have to pay seventy-two pounds for a house that costs sixty pounds. That’s twelve pounds more than they planned to spend. So, they’d probably settle for a cheaper house that costs fifty pounds a year. With the extra ten pounds for the tax, that would still total sixty pounds, which is what they can afford. They might have to give up some extra comfort that a more expensive house would have offered, but they could still find a decent place for fifty pounds a year.

This tax would lower the competition for houses that cost sixty pounds, which would also affect those that cost fifty pounds and others, except for the cheapest ones, where competition might actually go up for a little while. Because of this reduced competition, the rents for those houses would likely go down. However, this drop in rent wouldn’t really change the cost of building new houses for a long time, so eventually, the impact of the tax would mostly fall on the ground rent. In the end, the tax would be paid partly by the person living in the house.