486
The Wealth of Nations
countries, in all the different branches of trade of which Great
Britain has not the monopoly.
As the monopoly of the colony trade has drawn from those other
branches a part of the British capital, which would otherwise have
been employed in them, so it has forced into them many foreign
capitals which would never have gone to them, had they not been
expelled from the colony trade. In those other branches of trade,
it has diminished the competition of British capitals, and thereby
raised the rate of British profit higher than it otherwise would
have been. On the contrary, it has increased the competition of
foreign capitals, and thereby sunk the rate of foreign profit lower
than it otherwise would have been. Both in the one way and in
the other, it must evidently have subjected Great Britain to a rela-
tive disadvantage in all those other branches of trade.
The colony trade, however, it may perhaps be said, is more ad-
vantageous to Great Britain than any other; and the monopoly, by
forcing into that trade a greater proportion of the capital of Great
Britain than what would otherwise have gone to it, has turned
that capital into an employment, more advantageous to the coun-
try than any other which it could have found.
The most advantageous employment of any capital to the coun-
try to which it belongs, is that which maintains there the greatest
quantity of productive labour, and increases the most the annual
produce of the land and labour of that country. But the quantity
of productive labour which any capital employed in the foreign
trade of consumption can maintain, is exactly in proportion, it
has been shown in the second book, to the frequency of its re-
turns. A capital of a thousand pounds, for example, employed in a
foreign trade of consumption, of which the returns are made regu-
larly once in the year, can keep in constant employment, in the
country to which it belongs, a quantity of productive labour, equal
to what a thousand pounds can maintain there for a year. If the
returns are made twice or thrice in the year, it can keep in constant
employment a quantity of productive labour, equal to what two
or three thousand pounds can maintain there for a year. A foreign
trade of consumption carried on with a neighbouring, is, upon
that account, in general, more advantageous than one carried on
with a distant country; and, for the same reason, a direct foreign
trade of consumption, as it has likewise been shown in the second
book, is in general more advantageous than a round-about one.
But the monopoly of the colony trade, so far as it has operated
upon the employment of the capital of Great Britain, has, in all
cases, forced some part of it from a foreign trade of consumption
carried on with a neighbouring, to one carried on with a more
distant country, and in many cases from a direct foreign trade of
consumption to a round-about one.