The Wealth of Nations

The value of silver coins has been pretty low lately, especially compared to their standard weight. Right now, silver coins are more worn down than ever before. However, their value has stayed up because of gold coins, which are exchanged for them. Before the recent changes in gold coins, gold coins were also worn down, but not as much as the silver ones.

Back in 1695, the value of silver coins wasn’t supported by gold coins. At that time, a gold coin was worth about thirty shillings of worn silver. Before the recent changes in gold coins, silver was usually priced at around five shillings and seven pence per ounce, which is only a little bit above the mint price. But in 1695, silver was priced at six shillings and five pence per ounce, which is much higher than the mint price.

Even before the recent changes in gold coins, the combined value of gold and silver coins was thought to be only about eight percent below their standard value. In 1695, it was believed to be around twenty-five percent below that value. However, at the start of this century, right after the big changes in gold coins during King William’s time, most silver coins were closer to their standard weight than they are now.

This century hasn’t seen any major disasters, like a civil war, that could have hurt farming or trade in the country. Although the government support for farming has raised corn prices a bit, it has also helped increase the amount of corn available. Many people think this support has done even more good. 

In the last sixty-four years, the average price for a quarter of the best wheat at Windsor market has been about £2:0:6 10/32. This is around ten shillings and six pence, which is more than twenty-five percent cheaper than it was in the last sixty-four years of the previous century. It’s also about nine shillings and six pence cheaper than it was during the sixteen years before 1636, when the discovery of new mines in America started to have a big impact.