Adam Smith

When silver started coming into Europe, people soon realized that they couldn't sell all of it at such a high price. Over time, the amount of goods you could get for silver would get smaller and smaller. The price of silver would drop lower and lower until it reached a normal price. This price would be just enough to cover the costs of paying workers, making profits, and paying for land to get the silver from the mine to the market.

In many silver mines in Peru, the king of Spain takes a tax that is one-tenth of what is produced. This tax has been mentioned before and it takes away almost all the money made from the land. At first, the tax was half, then it went down to a third, then a fifth, and now it’s at one-tenth, where it still is today. In most silver mines in Peru, this is all that’s left after paying back the costs of running the mine and making some profits. It seems like these profits, which used to be really high, are now as low as they can be while still keeping the mines running.

The king of Spain’s tax was lowered to one-fifth of the silver in 1504, which was 41 years before the Potosi mines were discovered in 1545. Over the next ninety years, or by 1636, these mines, which were the richest in all of America, had enough time to produce a lot of silver and lower its value in Europe as much as it could while still paying the king’s tax. Ninety years is enough time for any product that isn’t controlled by one company to drop to its natural price, or the lowest price it can be sold for while still paying a tax.

The price of silver in Europe might have dropped even more, and it could have become necessary to lower the tax even more, maybe to one-twentieth like the tax on gold, or to stop working many of the American mines altogether. The growing demand for silver and the expanding market for silver from American mines probably stopped this from happening. This demand has helped keep the value of silver in Europe steady and maybe even raised it a bit since the middle of the last century.

Since America was first discovered, the market for silver from its mines has been getting bigger and bigger. First, the market in Europe has been expanding. Since America was discovered, most of Europe has improved a lot. England, Holland, France, and