The process of making silk from silk-worms takes a lot of work, and since labor is really expensive in America, this big reward for silk production probably won't make much difference.

The sixth reward was given by King George III for bringing in pipe, hogshead, and barrel staves from British colonies. This reward lasted for nine years, from January 1, 1772, to January 1, 1781. In the first three years, the reward was £6 for a certain amount, then it dropped to £4 for the next three years, and finally to £2 for the last three years.

The seventh and final reward was given for importing hemp from Ireland. This reward was similar to the one for importing hemp and flax from America and lasted for twenty-one years, from June 24, 1779, to June 24, 1800. It was also divided into three periods of seven years each, and the amount for Ireland was the same as for America. However, this reward didn’t include flax because that would have hurt the growth of that plant in Great Britain. When this last reward was given, the British and Irish governments weren’t getting along much better than the British and American governments had before. But hopefully, this help for Ireland was given under better circumstances than the help for America.

The same products that got rewards when imported from America were taxed heavily when imported from other countries. The interests of the American colonies were seen as the same as those of Great Britain. Their wealth was considered our wealth. Any money sent to them was thought to come back to us through trade, so we wouldn’t lose anything by spending on them. They were seen as part of us, and spending on them was like improving our own property and creating jobs for our people. 

We don’t need to say much more to show how foolish this system was, as we’ve learned from experience. If our American colonies had really been part of Great Britain, those rewards could have been seen as rewards for production, but they would still have faced the same issues as any other rewards. 

Sometimes, exporting materials for manufacturing is stopped completely, or it’s made expensive with high taxes.