609
Adam Smith
cious writer, Mr Anderson, author of the Historical and Chrono-
logical Deduction of Commerce, very justly observes, that upon
examining the accounts which Mr Dobbs himself has given for
several years together, of their exports and imports, and upon
making proper allowances for their extraordinary risk and expense,
it does not appear that their profits deserve to be envied, or that
they can much, if at all, exceed the ordinary profits of trade.
The South Sea company never had any forts or garrisons to
maintain, and therefore were entirely exempted from one great
expense, to which other joint-stock companies for foreign trade
are subject; but they had an immense capital divided among an
immense number of proprietors. It was naturally to be expected,
therefore, that folly, negligence, and profusion, should prevail in
the whole management of their affairs. The knavery and extrava-
gance of their stock-jobbing projects are sufficiently known, and
the explication of them would be foreign to the present subject.
Their mercantile projects were not much better conducted. The
first trade which they engaged in, was that of supplying the Span-
ish West Indies with negroes, of which (in consequence of what
was called the Assiento Contract granted them by the treaty of
Utrecht) they had the exclusive privilege. But as it was not ex-
pected that much profit could be made by this trade, both the
Portuguese and French companies, who had enjoyed it upon the
same terms before them, having been ruined by it, they were al-
lowed, as compensation, to send annually a ship of a certain bur-
den, to trade directly to the Spanish West Indies. Of the ten voy-
ages which this annual ship was allowed to make, they are said to
have gained considerably by one, that of the Royal Caroline, in
1731; and to have been losers, more or less, by almost all the rest.
Their ill success was imputed, by their factors and agents, to the
extortion and oppression of the Spanish government; but was,
perhaps, principally owing to the profusion and depredations of
those very factors and agents; some of whom are said to have ac-
quired great fortunes, even in one year. In 1734, the company
petitioned the king, that they might be allowed to dispose of the
trade and tonnage of their annual ship, on account of the little
profit which they made by it, and to accept of such equivalent as
they could obtain from the king of Spain.
In 1724, this company had undertaken the whale fishery. Of
this, indeed, they had no monopoly; but as long as they carried it
on, no other British subjects appear to have engaged in it. Of the
eight voyages which their ships made to Greenland, they were
gainers by one, and losers by all the rest. After their eighth and last
voyage, when they had sold their ships, stores, and utensils, they
found that their whole loss upon this branch, capital and interest
included, amounted to upwards of £237,000.