The foreign trade of Spain and Portugal with other parts of Europe mostly happens on foreign ships, but it’s still pretty important. When it comes to their colonies, they use their own ships, and that trade is much bigger because those colonies are really rich and large. However, neither country has developed many factories for selling goods far away, and a lot of their land is still not used properly. Portugal has been trading with other countries longer than most big countries in Europe, except for Italy.

Italy is the only major country in Europe that seems to have improved everywhere because of foreign trade and factories. Before Charles VIII invaded, Italy was well-farmed even in the roughest and least fertile areas, not just in the flat and rich parts. The country’s good location and the many independent states at that time probably helped with this farming. It’s also possible that, despite what some historians say, Italy wasn’t actually better farmed back then than England is now.

However, the money a country makes from trade and factories is always a bit shaky until some of it is invested in improving its land. A merchant doesn’t have to belong to any specific country. They can trade from anywhere, and if they get even a little annoyed, they might move their money and the jobs that come with it to another country. Money can’t really be said to belong to a country until it’s spread out in buildings or improvements on the land. There’s not much left of the wealth that the Hanse Towns had, except for some old stories from the 1200s and 1300s. It’s even unclear where some of those towns were or what modern towns their old Latin names refer to. 

Even though Italy faced tough times in the late 1400s and early 1500s that hurt the trade and factories in Lombardy and Tuscany, those areas are still among the most populated and well-farmed in Europe. The civil wars in Flanders and the Spanish rule that followed drove away the big trade from cities like Antwerp, Ghent, and Bruges. But Flanders is still one of the richest, best-farmed, and most populated regions in Europe.