Adam Smith

All the countries on the north side of the Baltic Sea were let off from a special rule that only allowed certain companies to trade there. This change probably happened because those companies were acting unfairly. Before this, a guy named Sir Josiah Child said that these companies, along with the Hamburg company, were being really harsh and that their poor management was hurting trade with the countries they were supposed to help. Even though these companies might not be super harsh anymore, they are definitely not helpful at all. Being just useless is actually a pretty big compliment for a company like this, and it seems like all three companies mentioned are in that situation now.

Back in the day, if you wanted to join the Turkey company, you had to pay a fee of twenty-five pounds if you were under twenty-six and fifty pounds if you were older. Only regular merchants could join, which meant shopkeepers and small store owners were left out. There was a rule that said no British products could be sent to Turkey except on the company's ships, which always left from London. This made trading really expensive and only allowed people who lived near London to participate. Another rule said that if you lived within twenty miles of London and weren't a member of the city, you couldn't join the company. This meant that only people who were already part of London could be members. Since the company’s leaders decided when their ships would load and leave, they could easily fill them with their own products and those of their friends, leaving others out. Because of all this, the company was pretty much a strict and unfair monopoly. 

These problems led to a new law that changed the admission fee to twenty pounds for everyone, no matter their age, and removed the restrictions on who could join. This law also allowed anyone to export British goods to Turkey from any port in Great Britain, as long as they paid the regular taxes and any extra fees for the company. They also had to follow the rules set by the British ambassador and consuls in Turkey, as well as the company’s rules. To stop any unfairness from new rules, the law said that if seven members of the company felt that a new rule was unfair, they could take action.