The Wealth of Nations

The advice from Mr. de Voltaire can apply not just to France, but to all Roman Catholic countries. In these places, it’s pretty rare to find a really smart person who teaches at a university, except maybe in law and medicine, where the church doesn’t usually pull them away. 

After the Roman Catholic Church, the Church of England is the richest and best-supported church in the Christian world. Because of this, the church in England often takes the best and brightest from the universities. You won’t find many famous writers or thinkers in universities there, just like in other Roman Catholic countries. 

On the other hand, in places like Geneva, the Protestant parts of Switzerland, Protestant Germany, Holland, Scotland, Sweden, and Denmark, many of the top writers and thinkers have been university professors. In these countries, universities often take the best minds from the church. 

It’s interesting to note that, except for poets, a few speakers, and some historians, most famous writers from Greece and Rome were either teachers or tutors, usually in philosophy or public speaking. This has been true since the days of famous figures like Lysias, Isocrates, Plato, and Aristotle, all the way to Plutarch and others. 

Making someone teach the same subject every year is actually a great way to help them really understand it. If they have to go over the same material repeatedly, they get to know it really well. If they make a quick judgment about something one year, they might change their mind after teaching it again the next year. 

Being a teacher is a natural job for someone who loves literature, and it’s also a great way to gain solid knowledge. When church jobs don’t pay well, many writers and thinkers in that country tend to choose jobs where they can help the public the most and get the best education possible. This helps them become knowledgeable and useful. 

The money that established churches make, except for what comes from specific lands or estates, is actually part of the overall money that the state collects.