The Wealth of Nations

When we look at the price of corn, it includes the money made by the miller and what he pays his workers. The price of bread includes the baker's profits and what he pays his workers too. Plus, we have to think about the cost of moving the corn from the farmer to the miller and then to the baker, along with the profits of the people who pay those workers.

The price of flax is broken down in the same way as corn. But when we talk about the price of linen, we also need to add the wages of the people who work with flax, like the flax-dresser, spinner, weaver, and bleacher, along with their bosses' profits.

As a product gets more processed, the part of the price that goes to wages and profits gets bigger compared to what goes to rent. As manufacturing improves, not only do more profits show up, but each profit is usually bigger than the last one. For example, the money used to pay weavers has to be more than what is used for spinners because it has to cover their wages and also give profits.

In advanced societies, there are some products where the price only has two parts: the wages of the workers and the profits from the business. There are even fewer products where the price is just the wages of the workers. For instance, in the price of sea fish, one part pays the fisherman’s labor, and the other part is the profits from the fishing business. Rent usually doesn’t factor in, though it can sometimes, as I’ll explain later. 

In many parts of Europe, river fisheries are different. A salmon fishery pays rent, and rent, even if it’s not exactly land rent, is part of the price of salmon, along with wages and profits. 

In some areas of Scotland, some poor people collect colorful stones called Scotch pebbles from the beach. The money they get from the stone-cutter is only for their labor; there’s no rent or profit included.

But in the end, the price of any product has to break down into one or more of those three parts: rent, labor costs, and profits. Whatever is left after paying rent and covering all the labor costs has to be profit for someone. 

So, when we look at the price of each product, it can be divided into those three parts, and this applies to all the products that come from the work done in every country each year.