Adam Smith

The price of sugar from England is about eight shillings for a hundred weight. That’s way less than what people usually pay for brown sugar from our colonies, and it’s even cheaper than the best white sugar. 

Most of the farmland in Cochin China is used to grow corn and rice, which is what most people eat. The prices of corn, rice, and sugar there probably make sense based on how much land is used for each crop. This helps pay the farmers and landowners based on what they spent to grow the crops. But in our sugar colonies, the price of sugar doesn’t match up with the prices of corn or rice fields in Europe or America. 

People say that sugar planters think the money they make from rum and molasses should cover all their farming costs, so the sugar they sell is just profit. If that’s true, it’s like a corn farmer expecting to pay for their farming with the leftover bits of corn and thinking the actual corn is all profit. 

We often see groups of merchants in London and other trading cities buying up unused land in our sugar colonies. They plan to improve and farm it for profit, even though it’s far away and the returns are uncertain because of poor justice systems in those countries. No one would try to farm the best lands in Scotland, Ireland, or the corn-growing areas of North America like this, because they could expect better returns due to better justice systems there. 

In Virginia and Maryland, growing tobacco is seen as more profitable than growing corn. Tobacco could be grown in many parts of Europe, but it’s heavily taxed there. It’s thought that collecting taxes from every farm growing tobacco would be harder than taxing it when it comes into the country. Because of this, growing tobacco has been banned in most of Europe, giving a sort of monopoly to the places where it’s still allowed. Virginia and Maryland produce a lot of it, so they benefit from this monopoly, even with some competition. However, growing tobacco doesn’t seem to be as profitable as growing sugar. I’ve never heard of a tobacco farm being funded by merchants from Great Britain, and our tobacco colonies send us back home...