The Wealth of Nations

Getting a good education can be really boring and expensive, but it’s even worse for more than twenty other people who probably won’t benefit from it. Even though lawyers sometimes charge a lot, they don’t actually make as much money as it seems. If you look at how much money different workers, like shoemakers or weavers, make and spend each year, you’ll see that they usually earn more than they spend. But if you do the same for all the lawyers and law students in different law schools, you’ll find that their earnings are much smaller compared to their expenses, even if you think they earn a lot and spend a little. So, the law profession isn’t a fair game, and like many other respected jobs, it doesn’t pay as well as it should.

Still, these jobs stay popular, and even with these challenges, many ambitious and kind-hearted people want to join them. There are two main reasons for this. First, people want the respect that comes with being really good at something. Second, everyone has some level of confidence in their own skills and luck.

To be really good at a job where only a few people even reach an average level is a clear sign of talent or genius. The admiration from the public for these special skills is part of the reward, and it can be bigger or smaller depending on how high the skill is. This admiration is a big part of being a doctor, even more so for lawyers, and almost everything for poets and philosophers.

There are some really cool talents that people admire, but using them to make money is often looked down upon, whether it’s fair or not. So, people who use these talents to earn a living need to make enough money not just to cover their time and effort but also to deal with the negative views about their work. The huge paychecks for actors, opera singers, and dancers come from two reasons: their unique and amazing talents and the shame that comes from using those talents for money. It seems strange that we look down on them as people but still pay them a lot for their skills. But while we do one, we have to do the other too.