203
Adam Smith
covery of more abundant mines than any that were known before.
The increase of the quantity of gold and silver in Europe, and the
increase of its manufactures and agriculture, are two events which,
though they have happened nearly about the same time, yet have
arisen from very different causes, and have scarce any natural con-
nection with one another. The one has arisen from a mere acci-
dent, in which neither prudence nor policy either had or could
have any share; the other, from the fall of the feudal system, and
from the establishment of a government which afforded to indus-
try the only encouragement which it requires, some tolerable se-
curity that it shall enjoy the fruits of its own labour. Poland, where
the feudal system still continues to take place, is at this day as
beggarly a country as it was before the discovery of America. The
money price of corn, however, has risen; the real value of the pre-
cious metals has fallen in Poland, in the same manner as in other
parts of Europe. Their quantity, therefore, must have increased
there as in other places, and nearly in the same proportion to the
annual produce of its land and labour. This increase of the quan-
tity of those metals, however, has not, it seems, increased that
annual produce, has neither improved the manufactures and agri-
culture of the country, nor mended the circumstances of its in-
habitants. Spain and Portugal, the countries which possess the
mines, are, after Poland, perhaps the two most beggarly countries
in Europe. The value of the precious metals, however, must be
lower in Spain and Portugal than in any other part of Europe, as
they come from those countries to all other parts of Europe, loaded,
not only with a freight and an insurance, but with the expense of
smuggling, their exportation being either prohibited or subjected
to a duty. In proportion to the annual produce of the land and
labour, therefore, their quantity must be greater in those countries
than in any other part of Europe; those countries, however, are
poorer than the greater part of Europe. Though the feudal system
has been abolished in Spain and Portugal, it has not been suc-
ceeded by a much better.
As the low value of gold and silver, therefore, is no proof of the
wealth and flourishing state of the country where it takes place; so
neither is their high value, or the low money price either of goods
in general, or of corn in particular, any proof of its poverty and
barbarism.
But though the low money price, either of goods in general, or
of corn in particular, be no proof of the poverty or barbarism of
the times, the low money price of some particular sorts of goods,
such as cattle, poultry, game of all kinds, etc. in proportion to that
of corn, is a most decisive one. It clearly demonstrates, first, their
great abundance in proportion to that of corn, and, consequently,
the great extent of the land which they occupied in proportion to