Adam Smith said that people who worked outside of cities couldn’t wear clothes that cost more than two shillings for a yard of fabric. Back in the time of Edward IV, two shillings was almost the same as four of today’s coins. The cloth sold in Yorkshire now for four shillings a yard is probably way better than what the poorest workers wore back then. So, even though clothes might seem expensive now, they might actually be cheaper compared to the quality than they were in the past.

The actual price of things is definitely lower now. Back then, ten pence was considered a fair price for a bushel of wheat. Two shillings would buy about two bushels and a bit more, which today would cost around eight shillings and nine pence. So, if a poor worker bought a yard of cloth, they would be giving up the chance to buy a lot of food that eight shillings and nine pence could get them now. This was a law to keep poor people from spending too much on fancy stuff, so their clothes were usually more expensive.

The same law also said that these workers couldn’t wear stockings that cost more than fourteen pence a pair, which is like twenty-eight pence today. Back then, fourteen pence was the price for a bushel and a bit more of wheat, which would cost about five shillings and three pence now. Today, we’d think that’s a lot for a pair of stockings for a poor worker, but back then, they had to pay something similar.

During Edward IV's time, people probably didn’t know how to knit stockings anywhere in Europe. Their stockings were made from regular cloth, which might be why they were so pricey. The first person in England to wear stockings was said to be Queen Elizabeth, who got them as a gift from a Spanish ambassador.

In the past, the machines used to make wool clothes were not as good as they are now. There have been three major improvements since then, plus probably a lot of smaller ones that are hard to count. The first big change was swapping the rock and spindle for the spinning wheel, which can do more than double the work with the same effort. The second change involved using clever machines that make the process even faster and easier.