If a farmer's crops got ruined because of bad weather or an attack from a neighboring lord, they might be facing a serious food shortage. But if there was a hostile lord in between them, they couldn't help each other at all. During the time of the Tudors, who ruled England in the late 1400s and all through the 1500s, no lord was strong enough to mess with the safety of the people.

At the end of this chapter, you can find all the wheat prices collected by Fleetwood from 1202 to 1597, adjusted to today's money. They are organized into seven groups of twelve years each. At the end of each group, there’s also the average price for those twelve years. Fleetwood could only gather prices for about eighty years during this long time, so there are four missing years for the last group. I added the prices for 1598, 1599, 1600, and 1601 from Eton College records. That’s the only extra info I included. 

You’ll notice that from the early 1200s until the mid-1500s, the average price for each twelve-year group gets lower and lower. Then, towards the end of the 1500s, it starts to go back up. The prices Fleetwood collected mostly show times when things were either really expensive or really cheap, so we can’t draw super strong conclusions from them. But they do support what I’ve been trying to explain. Fleetwood and many other writers believed that during this time, the value of silver was going down because there was more of it. However, the corn prices he collected don’t really match that idea. They actually fit with what Mr. Dupré de St Maur said, which is what I’ve been trying to explain too. Fleetwood and Mr. Dupré de St Maur are the two authors who did the best job collecting prices from back then. It’s interesting that even though they have different opinions, their facts about corn prices match up perfectly.

But it’s not just the low price of corn that led smart writers to think silver was really valuable in ancient times. They also looked at the prices of other basic goods from the land. Corn was considered a kind of product, and back in those early days, it was much more expensive compared to other things.