The Wealth of Nations

The amount of paper money being used is too high because of the stock available. 

When the different colonies trade with Great Britain, they use gold and silver depending on how much they need them. If they don’t need these metals, they don’t use them much. But when they do need them, they usually have them.

In the trade between Great Britain and the tobacco colonies, the British send goods to the colonists on credit, and the colonists pay for these goods with tobacco at a set price. It’s easier for the colonists to pay with tobacco instead of gold and silver. For any merchant, it’s better to pay for goods with other goods they sell rather than with cash. This way, they don’t have to keep money on hand for unexpected costs. They can have more products in their store or warehouse and sell more. 

However, it’s not always easy for every merchant to pay with other goods. The British merchants who trade with Virginia and Maryland prefer to be paid in tobacco instead of gold and silver. They can make money selling tobacco, but not from gold and silver. So, gold and silver are rarely used in trade between Great Britain and the tobacco colonies. Maryland and Virginia don’t need these metals for their trading, whether with other countries or within their own. They actually have less gold and silver money than other colonies in America, but they are still considered to be doing well and are just as rich as their neighbors.

In the northern colonies like Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey, and the four New England governments, the value of what they send to Great Britain isn’t as high as what they bring back in manufactured goods for themselves and other colonies. So, they usually have to pay the difference to Great Britain in gold and silver, and they manage to do that.

In the sugar colonies, the value of the sugar and rum they send to Great Britain is much higher than what they import. If they paid for the sugar and rum in those colonies, Great Britain would have to send a lot of money every year, and the trade with the West Indies would be affected.