The Wealth of Nations

When someone invests money in a business, the value that workers add to the materials they use can be split into two parts. One part pays the workers' wages, and the other part is the profit that the employer makes from the total amount of materials and wages they provided. The employer wouldn’t hire workers unless they thought they could sell the products for more than what they spent on materials and wages. They also wouldn’t invest a lot of money unless they expected to make a good profit based on how much they invested.

Some people might think that profits are just another name for the wages of certain types of work, like managing and overseeing. However, profits are different and are based on different rules. They don’t depend on how much work or skill goes into managing. Instead, profits depend on the value of the money invested, and they increase or decrease based on how much money is put into the business. 

For example, let’s say in a certain place, the average profit for manufacturing is ten percent. There are two factories, each with twenty workers earning fifteen pounds a year, costing three hundred pounds a year for each factory. In one factory, the raw materials cost seven hundred pounds, while in the other, they cost seven thousand pounds. So, the total money used in the first factory is one thousand pounds, while the second one uses seven thousand three hundred pounds. At ten percent profit, the first factory would expect to make about one hundred pounds a year, while the second would expect around seven hundred thirty pounds. 

Even though the profits are very different, the amount of management work needed might be almost the same for both factories. Often, a main clerk does most of the management work, and their pay reflects the value of that work. While their pay considers their skills and the trust placed in them, it doesn’t usually match the size of the money they manage. The owner of the money, even if they don’t do much work, still expects their profit to relate to how much money they invested. So, in the prices of goods, profits are a separate part that is different from workers' wages and based on different rules.

In this situation, not all the results of the workers' efforts go to them. Usually, they have to share it with others.