The Wealth of Nations

In a country near the River Plate, which was the main route from Europe to the silver mines in Potosi, the cost of labor was really low. But when farming spreads out over more land, there’s usually more bread than meat. This changes things, and meat prices go up compared to bread prices.

As farming expands, the wild areas can’t keep up with the demand for meat. A lot of the farmland needs to be used for raising cattle, so the price of meat has to be high enough to cover the costs of taking care of the cattle, plus what the landowner and farmer would make if they used that land for growing crops instead. Cattle raised on less developed land are sold for the same price as those raised on better land, so the owners of the wild land can charge more rent based on the price of their cattle.

Not long ago, in some parts of the Scottish Highlands, meat was as cheap as or even cheaper than oatmeal bread. But after the Union opened up the market in England for Highland cattle, the price of meat there has tripled since the start of the century, and the rent for many Highland farms has also gone up a lot. Now, in most of Great Britain, a pound of good meat is worth more than two pounds of the best white bread, and sometimes even three or four pounds in good years.

As things improve, the rent and profit from less developed land for grazing cattle are influenced by the rent and profit from better land, which are also influenced by the rent and profit from growing crops. Crops like corn are grown every year, while meat takes four or five years to produce. Since an acre of land can grow much less meat than corn, the higher price of meat has to make up for the smaller amount. If it didn’t, more corn fields would be turned into pasture, and if it was too much, some pasture would go back to growing corn.

However, this balance between the rent and profit from grazing land and crop land only happens in most of the improved areas of a large country. In some specific places, it can be very different, and the rent and profit from those lands can vary a lot.