The Wealth of Nations

When a landlord wants to take back their land, they usually don’t use the legal actions meant for them, like the writ of right or writ of entry. Instead, they go through their tenant using a writ of ejectment. In England, this means that the tenant has just as much protection as the landlord. Also, in England, if someone has a lease for life worth forty shillings a year, it counts as a freehold. This lets the person who leases the land vote for a member of parliament. Since many farmers have these freeholds, they gain respect from their landlords because of the political power this gives them. I don’t think there’s anywhere else in Europe, except England, where a tenant can build on land they don’t own and trust that their landlord won’t take advantage of their improvements. These laws and customs that help farmers have probably done more for England’s success than all the fancy trade rules they brag about.

The law that protects long leases from being changed by future owners is, as far as I know, unique to Great Britain. It was introduced in Scotland way back in 1449 by King James II. However, this law hasn’t worked as well as it could because of something called entails. Heirs of entails often can’t give leases for long periods, usually just for one year. A recent law has made it a bit easier, but it’s still pretty strict. In Scotland, since leaseholders can’t vote for parliament members, farmers don’t have as much respect from their landlords compared to England.

In other parts of Europe, when they figured out that tenants needed protection from heirs and buyers, the security period was still pretty short. For example, in France, it used to be just nine years for a lease, but now it’s been extended to twenty-seven years, which is still not enough to encourage tenants to make big improvements. A long time ago, landowners were the ones making the laws in Europe. So, the laws about land were made to benefit them. They thought it was in their best interest that no lease from previous owners would stop them from getting the full value of their land for many years. But greed and unfairness are often short-sighted, and they didn’t realize that these rules would actually slow down improvements and hurt their own long-term interests.

Farmers, in addition to paying rent, were once thought to have to do a lot of work for the landlord, which was rarely mentioned in the lease or clearly defined.