The Wealth of Nations

In the past, countries didn’t have paper money like we do now, so they relied more on gold and silver. In places where trade and manufacturing aren’t common, rulers can’t easily get help from their people during tough times. Because of this, they try to save up money as a backup. Besides needing to save, they also tend to be more careful with their spending. In simpler times, even a king’s spending wasn’t about showing off fancy things but was more about being generous to his people and hosting guests. Being generous usually doesn’t lead to wasting money, but showing off often does.

Every Tartar chief had some treasure saved up. For example, Mazepa, a Cossack leader in Ukraine, was known to have a lot of wealth. The early French kings also had treasures, and when they split their kingdom among their kids, they shared their treasures too. The Saxon princes and the first kings after the Conquest also saved up money. When a new king took over, one of their first actions was usually to take the previous king’s treasure to secure their rule.

Kings in more developed and trading countries don’t need to save up as much because they can usually get extra help from their people when needed. They also tend to spend more like everyone else around them. Their spending is often influenced by the same desire to show off that affects other wealthy people in their lands. The fancy displays at their courts keep getting more extravagant, and this spending not only stops them from saving money but also takes away from funds needed for important things. What Dercyllidas said about the Persian court can be said about many European princes: there’s a lot of showiness but not much strength, and many servants but not many soldiers.

Bringing in gold and silver isn’t the only or even the main benefit a country gets from trading with others. When countries trade, they get two main advantages. They can sell the extra stuff they produce that they don’t need and get something back that they do need. This trade gives value to what they have by exchanging it for something else that’s useful.