The Wealth of Nations

When we talk about the money made from wine, corn, and pasture, we need to focus on vineyards that only make regular wine. This is the kind of wine that can be grown almost anywhere, as long as the soil is light, gravelly, or sandy, and it’s known for being strong and healthy. Only these vineyards can compete with the common land in the country, not the special ones that produce unique wines.

Vines are affected by soil differences more than any other fruit tree. Some soils give the grapes a flavor that can’t be matched by any other place, no matter how well they are taken care of. This special flavor might only come from a few vineyards, or it could be found in a larger area. The amount of these wines sold is less than what people actually want to buy. Those who are willing to pay a lot for them can get them, which makes the price go up compared to regular wine. The price difference depends on how trendy and rare the wine is, which makes buyers compete more. Most of the extra money goes to the landlord. Even though these vineyards are usually taken care of better than others, the high price of the wine is more of a reason for careful farming than a result of it. If someone is careless, they can lose a lot of money, which makes even the laziest farmers pay attention. A small part of the high price pays for the extra work needed to grow the grapes and the profits from the resources used.

The sugar colonies owned by European countries in the West Indies are similar to these special vineyards. They don’t produce enough sugar to meet Europe’s demand, so they can sell it to those willing to pay more than what’s needed to cover the costs of growing and selling it. In Cochin China, the best white sugar usually sells for three piastres per quintal, which is about thirteen shillings and sixpence in our money, according to Mr. Poivre, who carefully studied farming in that area. A quintal there weighs between one hundred fifty to two hundred Paris pounds, or about one hundred seventy-five pounds on average.