The Wealth of Nations

Gold and silver are hard to smuggle because they have a consistent value. They can be easily moved from places where there's a lot of them to places where people need them. This is why their prices don’t change all the time like other goods, which are too bulky to move quickly when there’s too much or too little of them. The prices of gold and silver can change, but these changes happen slowly and steadily. For example, in Europe, people think that over the last couple of centuries, the value of gold and silver has been slowly going down because of the constant supply coming from the Spanish West Indies. However, for the price of gold and silver to suddenly change a lot and affect the prices of everything else, something huge in trade, like the discovery of America, would need to happen.

If a country runs low on gold and silver but has the means to buy them, there are other ways to get by. If a country runs out of materials to make things, businesses will stop. If there’s no food, people will go hungry. But if there’s not enough money, people can still trade goods directly, even though it can be a hassle. Buying and selling on credit, where sellers settle their debts with each other once a month or year, can help too. Having a good paper money system can make things easier and sometimes even better. So, it’s not really necessary for the government to focus so much on keeping the amount of money in a country high.

People often complain about not having enough money. Just like wine, money seems scarce to those who can’t afford it or don’t have credit to borrow it. Those who do have money or credit usually don’t struggle to get what they need. But this complaint isn’t just from people who spend too much. Sometimes, entire towns and nearby areas feel the same way. This usually happens because businesses are trying to do too much too quickly. Responsible people, whose plans don’t match their budgets, can end up without money or credit just like those who spend too much. Before their