87
Adam Smith
circumstances in the employments themselves, which, either re-
ally, or at least in the imagination of men, make up for a small
pecuniary gain in some, and counterbalance a great one in others,
and partly from the policy of Europe, which nowhere leaves things
at perfect liberty.
The particular consideration of those circumstances, and of that
policy, will divide this Chapter into two parts.
PPPPPARARARARART I. T I. T I. T I. T I. Inequalities arising from the nature of the employments
themselves.
The five following are the principal circumstances which, so far
as I have been able to observe, make up for a small pecuniary gain
in some employments, and counterbalance a great one in others.
First, the agreeableness or disagreeableness of the employments
themselves; secondly, the easiness and cheapness, or the difficulty
and expense of learning them; thirdly, the constancy or incon-
stancy of employment in them; fourthly, the small or great trust
which must be reposed in those who exercise them; and, fifthly,
the probability or improbability of success in them.
First, the wages of labour vary with the ease or hardship, the
cleanliness or dirtiness, the honourableness or dishonourableness,
of the employment. Thus in most places, take the year round, a
journeyman tailor earns less than a journeyman weaver. His work
is much easier. A journeyman weaver earns less than a journey-
man smith. His work is not always easier, but it is much cleanlier.
A journeyman blacksmith, though an artificer, seldom earns so
much in twelve hours, as a collier, who is only a labourer, does in
eight. His work is not quite so dirty, is less dangerous, and is car-
ried on in day-light, and above ground. Honour makes a great
part of the reward of all honourable professions. In point of pecu-
niary gain, all things considered, they are generally under-recom-
pensed, as I shall endeavour to shew by and by. Disgrace has the
contrary effect. The trade of a butcher is a brutal and an odious
business; but it is in most places more profitable than the greater
part of common trades. The most detestable of all employments,
that of public executioner, is, in proportion to the quantity of
work done, better paid than any common trade whatever.
Hunting and fishing, the most important employments of man-
kind in the rude state of society, become, in its advanced state,
their most agreeable amusements, and they pursue for pleasure
what they once followed from necessity. In the advanced state of
society, therefore, they are all very poor people who follow as a
trade, what other people pursue as a pastime. Fishermen have been
so since the time of Theocritus. {See Idyllium xxi.}. A poacher is
everywhere a very poor man in Great Britain. In countries where
the rigour of the law suffers no poachers, the licensed hunter is