Adam Smith says that extra costs will end up being paid by the people who buy things. If someone works for a farmer, the extra costs will be added to the rent that the farmer pays to the landlord.

But taxes on things that are considered luxuries, even for poor people, work differently. When the price of these taxed items goes up, it doesn’t mean that workers will get paid more. For example, a tax on tobacco, which is a luxury for both rich and poor, doesn’t increase wages. Even though tobacco is taxed heavily in England and France, it doesn’t seem to change how much workers earn. The same goes for taxes on tea and sugar, which are now considered luxuries for even the poorest people, and for chocolate in Spain.

In Great Britain, taxes on alcoholic drinks haven’t changed workers' wages either. For instance, when the price of beer went up because of a new tax, the daily pay for regular workers in London stayed the same. These workers were making about 18 to 20 pence a day before the tax, and they still make that much now.

High prices for these items don’t usually make it harder for poorer people to support their families. For those who are responsible and work hard, taxes on luxuries can actually help them cut back on things they don’t need. This forced saving can sometimes help them take better care of their families. It’s often the hardworking poor who have larger families and provide the most labor.

Not all poor people are responsible and hardworking. Some may still spend money on luxuries even when prices go up, ignoring the problems it causes for their families. These irresponsible people usually don’t raise many children because their kids often suffer from neglect and poor living conditions. Even if their kids survive the tough situations caused by their parents, they might pick up bad habits and end up being a problem for society instead of contributing positively. So, while higher prices for luxuries might make life tougher for some irresponsible families, it could also limit their ability to take care of their kids.