Adam Smith talks about how the rulers, rich people, and priests in ancient Mexico and Peru had a lot of control, and many people were likely their servants or slaves. He points out that the ancient cultures of Mexico and Peru didn’t really create anything that Europe wanted. Even though the Spanish armies were small, they had a hard time finding food wherever they went. They caused famines in places that were said to be crowded and well-farmed, which shows that the idea of these places being super populated and well-cultivated is mostly exaggerated.

The Spanish colonies had a government that wasn’t as good for farming and growth compared to the English colonies. However, they seem to be growing faster than many places in Europe. With good soil and a nice climate, the cheap land in new colonies helps make up for some of the government issues. A traveler named Frezier visited Peru in 1713 and said Lima had about 25,000 to 28,000 people. Another traveler, Ulloa, who lived there from 1740 to 1746, said there were more than 50,000 people. Their different numbers show that the population was growing quickly, similar to the English colonies.

America is becoming a new market for its own silver mines, and the demand for silver is increasing faster than in any successful country in Europe. The East Indies is another market for American silver, and since the mines were discovered, the amount of silver being sent there has been growing. The trade between America and the East Indies, mainly through Acapulco ships, has been increasing, and the trade through Europe has been growing even more. In the 1500s, only the Portuguese were trading regularly with the East Indies. By the end of that century, the Dutch started to take over this trade and pushed the Portuguese out of their main spots in India. For most of the last century, the Dutch and Portuguese shared the East India trade, but the Dutch trade grew much more while the Portuguese trade shrank. The English and French also began trading with India during this time.