The Wealth of Nations

Eventually, they decided to stop trading completely. They sold the enslaved people they bought on the coast to private traders in America and used their workers to trade for gold dust, elephant tusks, and dyes in the interior of Africa. However, this new trade didn’t go any better than their previous one. Their business kept getting worse until they ended up bankrupt. Eventually, the government shut them down, and their forts and soldiers were given to a new group of merchants trading to Africa.

Before the Royal African Company was created, there were three other companies that tried to trade in Africa, but they all failed too. They all had special licenses that were supposed to give them exclusive rights, but these weren’t officially approved by the government at the time.

The Hudson’s Bay Company had better luck than the Royal African Company before the recent war. They didn’t spend as much money. They only had about 120 people working in their different locations, which they called forts. This small team was enough to prepare the furs and goods needed for their ships, which could only stay in the icy waters for six to eight weeks. Because they had their cargo ready, private traders couldn’t compete with them for years. Without this preparation, trading to Hudson’s Bay was nearly impossible.

The Hudson’s Bay Company had a capital of around £110,000, which helped them control most of the trade in the poor but large area they operated in. No private traders ever tried to compete with them. So, they enjoyed a sort of exclusive trade, even if it wasn’t legally theirs. Plus, the company’s money was shared among only a few owners. A small group of owners with a decent amount of money can work together closely, like a private partnership, and pay close attention to their business.

Because of all these advantages, the Hudson’s Bay Company was able to do well in their trade before the war. However, it’s unlikely that their profits were as high as Mr. Dobbs thought they were. A more realistic view would show a different picture.