The Wealth of Nations

America has a lot of gold and silver mines, but they aren’t the only ones in the world. They do have way more gold and silver than other places. Most of the gold and silver from other mines is very small compared to what America produces. A lot of this gold and silver is brought into cities like Cadiz and Lisbon every year. 

In Birmingham alone, people use about fifty thousand pounds of gold and silver each year. This is just a tiny part of the six million pounds that comes into those cities annually. Overall, the amount of gold and silver used around the world might be about the same as what is produced each year. The rest might just be enough to keep up with the growing demand from countries that are doing well. Sometimes, this demand can even make the prices of gold and silver go up in Europe.

When it comes to brass and iron, way more of those metals are mined and sold each year compared to gold and silver. But that doesn’t mean brass and iron will become super cheap or that there will be too much of them. Just because they are used for tougher jobs and are less valuable, doesn’t mean they will always be easy to find. Gold and silver can also be lost or wasted in many different ways.

The prices of all metals can change slowly over time, but they don’t change as much from year to year compared to other things we get from the land. Precious metals like gold and silver usually have even steadier prices than the cheaper metals. This is because metals last a long time. For example, most of the corn sold last year will be eaten up before this year ends. But some iron from hundreds of years ago might still be around, and some gold from thousands of years ago could still be in use. 

The amount of corn needed each year will always depend on how much is produced that year. But the amount of iron used in different years won’t change much, even if the amount mined varies. The same goes for gold; its use won’t be affected much by how much is mined in any given year.