Adam Smith

The English government has really paid attention to business and manufacturing. In fact, there’s no other country in Europe, not even Holland, that has laws that are better for these industries. Because of this, business and manufacturing have been growing steadily over time. The farming and development of the country have also been improving, but it seems to be happening much slower than the growth of business and manufacturing. Most of the land was probably farmed before Queen Elizabeth’s time, and a lot of it is still not farmed at all. Even the farming that does happen isn’t as good as it could be.

The laws in England do support farming, not just by helping business but also with some direct benefits. Unless there’s a shortage, farmers can sell their grain freely and even get extra money for doing so. When there’s enough grain, bringing in foreign grain is made expensive with high taxes, almost making it impossible. Importing live animals is banned except from Ireland, and it was only recently allowed from there. So, farmers in England have a special advantage over others in the country when it comes to two really important products: bread and meat. Even though these benefits might not be as great as they seem, they show that the government wants to support farming.

What’s even more important is that farmers in England are made secure, independent, and respected by the law. No other country that has rules like primogeniture (where the oldest son inherits everything), pays tithes (a type of tax), and allows certain long-lasting property rights can support farming better than England. Still, farming isn’t as good as it could be. Imagine how it would be if the laws didn’t support farming at all and if farmers were in the same situation as in most other European countries. It’s been over 200 years since Queen Elizabeth started her reign, which is about how long human prosperity usually lasts.

France had a good amount of foreign trade almost a century before England became known for its trade. France had a decent navy before Charles VIII went to Naples. However, overall, France’s farming and development are not as good as England’s. The laws in France have never really provided the same kind of direct support for farming.