The Wealth of Nations

Back in the day, when beaver skins were really valuable, Great Britain took control of the land where most beavers lived. Because of this, America could only sell beaver skins to Great Britain. In 1764, the British government decided to make it cheaper to bring beaver skins into the country, lowering the tax to one penny. But they raised the tax on sending beaver skins out to seven pence each, and you couldn’t get any money back for the tax you paid when bringing them in. They also added a tax of eighteen pence for exporting beaver wool, but didn’t change the tax for bringing it in, which was between four and five pence at the time.

Coal is important for making things and for trade. Because of this, there were high taxes on sending coal out of the country, which in 1783 was over five shillings per ton, or more than fifteen shillings for a chaldron, which is a specific measure. This tax was often more than what coal was worth when it was taken from the ground or even when it was at the shipping port.

When it came to tools and machines used for trade, the government didn’t just raise taxes; they banned exporting them altogether. For example, there was a law that made it illegal to export machines for making gloves or stockings. If someone tried to do this, they would lose the machines and could also be fined forty pounds, with half going to the king and half to the person who reported them. Similarly, another law made it illegal to export tools used in making cotton, linen, wool, and silk. If someone broke this law, they could be fined two hundred pounds, and the ship captain could also be fined two hundred pounds if they let those tools be loaded onto their ship.

Since there were such heavy penalties for exporting machines, it was expected that people who made those machines, known as artificers, wouldn’t be allowed to leave freely either. There was a law that said if someone was caught trying to convince an artificer to go to another country to work or teach their trade, they would face serious consequences for their actions.