Adam Smith probably thought that before some areas got better, they might not have even reached that point yet. Out of all the things that make up this second type of raw material, cattle are likely the first to have their prices go up as things improve.

Until the price of cattle rises enough, it seems almost impossible for most of the land that could be farmed well to actually be farmed well. On farms that are too far from towns to get manure, which is true for most farms in big countries, the amount of good land depends on how much manure the farm produces itself. This, in turn, depends on how many cattle are kept on the farm.

The land gets fertilized either by letting the cattle graze on it or by feeding them in a barn and then taking their waste out to the fields. But if the price of cattle isn’t high enough to cover the rent and profit of the farmed land, the farmer can’t afford to let them graze there, and it’s even harder to feed them in the barn. Cattle can only be fed in the barn with the produce from well-farmed land because collecting the little produce from poor, unused land would be too much work and too costly.

So, if the price of cattle isn’t enough to pay for the produce from good land when they graze, it definitely won’t be enough when that produce has to be gathered with extra work and brought to the barn. Because of this, farmers can only keep as many cattle in the barn as they need for farming. But these cattle can’t produce enough manure to keep all the land in good shape for farming. The little manure they do produce will be saved for the best land or the land closest to the barn. This means that the best land will be kept in good condition for farming, while most of the rest will be left unused, only producing a little bit of poor grass to keep a few weak cattle alive.

Even though the farm might have too many cattle compared to what it can actually produce, it often has more than it needs for proper farming. Some of this unused land, however, after being grazed poorly for six or seven years, can be plowed and might give a small harvest of bad oats or some other rough grain. After that, it will be worn out and will need to be rested and grazed again like before.