Adam Smith always talked about how people in Ireland were treated badly. If Ireland joined Great Britain, most people there would be free from a really harsh ruling class. This ruling class was not like the one in Scotland, which was based on things like family and wealth. Instead, it was based on annoying differences like religion and politics. These differences made the oppressors act even worse and made those being oppressed really angry. Because of this, people in the same country often ended up hating each other more than people from different countries. Without joining Great Britain, people in Ireland probably wouldn’t see themselves as one united group for a long time.

In the colonies, there hasn’t been a harsh ruling class like that. Still, they would be much happier and more peaceful if they joined Great Britain. This would help them get away from the nasty fighting between different groups that often happens in small democracies. These fights have split people apart and caused problems in their governments. If they completely separated from Great Britain, those fights would get way worse. Before the current troubles started, Great Britain was able to keep those fights from getting too out of control. If that control was taken away, things could quickly turn violent.

In big countries with one government, the fighting between groups is usually less intense in faraway areas than in the main part of the country. The distance from the capital, where all the political drama happens, makes those areas less involved in the fights and more neutral about what’s going on. For example, there’s less fighting in Scotland than in England. If Ireland joined, there would likely be even less fighting there than in Scotland. The colonies could also become more united than they are now. Both Ireland and the colonies would have to pay higher taxes than they do now. However, if the money from those taxes was used wisely to pay off the national debt, those higher taxes might not last long. Eventually, Great Britain could lower its taxes to just what’s needed for keeping peace.