Adam Smith

In the next year, there would have been more houses built, more land improved, and the land that was already improved would have been taken care of better. More factories would have started up, and the ones that were already there would have grown bigger. It’s hard to imagine just how much wealth and money the country could have made by now.

Even though the government has slowed down England's natural growth towards wealth and improvement, it hasn’t completely stopped it. Right now, the amount of food and work produced is definitely a lot more than it was after the Restoration or the Revolution. This means that the money used to farm the land and pay workers is also much higher. Despite the government taking a lot, this money has quietly built up thanks to people saving money and working hard to improve their lives. This effort, protected by laws and freedom to work in the best way, has helped England grow richer and better in the past, and hopefully will continue to do so in the future.

However, England has never had a very frugal government, and its people aren’t known for being stingy either. So, it’s pretty arrogant for kings and leaders to try to control how people spend their money, whether by laws about spending or by banning foreign luxury items. They are usually the biggest spenders in society. They should focus on their own spending and trust regular people to manage theirs. If the leaders’ wastefulness doesn’t ruin the country, then the spending of everyday people won’t either.

As people save more and waste less, the public money grows, while those who spend just as much as they earn don’t really change it. Some ways of spending money seem to help the country get richer more than others. A person can spend their money on things that are used up right away, which won’t help in the future, or on things that last longer, which can be saved and used over time. For example, a wealthy person can either spend their money on fancy meals and keeping a big house, or they can invest in things that will help them in the long run.