Adam Smith

When the price of corn went up three or four times what it used to be, people thought it was because silver was worth less, not because corn itself was worth more. So, if the average price of corn has dropped a bit in the last sixty-four years, we should think that it’s because silver is worth more now in Europe, not because corn is worth less.

The high price of corn over the last ten or twelve years has made some people think that silver is still losing value in Europe. But really, the high price of corn seems to be because the weather has been really bad, and this should be seen as a temporary problem, not something that will last forever. The weather has been tough for most of Europe during these years, and issues in Poland have made it even harder to get corn from there, which used to help supply other countries during expensive years. Long periods of bad weather aren’t common, but they do happen, and if you look into the history of corn prices, you’ll find other times like this. Ten years of not having enough corn isn’t any more surprising than ten years of having a lot of it.

From 1741 to 1750, the price of corn was low compared to how high it’s been recently. For example, during that time, the average price of nine bushels of the best wheat at Windsor market was about £1:13:9 4/5, which is almost 6s.3d. less than the average price in the first sixty-four years of this century. The average price for eight bushels of middle-quality wheat was only £1:6:8 during those ten years.

However, during 1741 to 1750, a government reward helped keep the price of corn from dropping too low. In those ten years, a lot of grain was exported, totaling over 8 million quarters. The government paid about £1.5 million in rewards for this. In 1749, Mr. Pelham, who was the prime minister at the time, pointed out to the House of Commons that a huge amount had been paid in rewards for exporting corn in the previous three years. He had good reason to say this, and the next year, the amount paid in rewards was even higher, reaching about £324,176:10:6.