Though all the cattle in the European colonies in America originally came from Europe, they quickly multiplied and became so common that even horses were allowed to roam freely in the woods. No one thought it was worth it to claim them. It took a long time after these colonies were set up before it became profitable to raise cattle on farmed land. 

The same problems, like not having enough manure and the imbalance between the number of animals and the land available for farming, led to a farming system similar to what still happens in many parts of Scotland. A Swedish traveler named Mr. Kalm, who wrote about farming in some English colonies in North America in 1749, noticed that it was hard to see the skills of the English people in farming. He said they hardly made any manure for their corn fields. Instead, when one piece of land was used up from too much planting, they would clear and farm another piece of fresh land. When that land was used up, they moved on to a third.

Their cattle were allowed to wander in the woods and other uncultivated areas, where they were often hungry. They had already destroyed most of the annual grasses by grazing on them too early in the spring, before they could grow flowers or seeds. These annual grasses were the best natural grasses in that part of North America, and when the Europeans first arrived, they grew thick and could reach three or four feet high. A piece of land that could only support one cow at the time Kalm wrote could have supported four cows in the past, each giving four times as much milk as the one cow could give now.

Kalm believed that the poor quality of the pasture had caused the decline in the cattle's health, which got worse from one generation to the next. They were probably similar to the small cattle that were common in Scotland thirty or forty years ago, which have improved a lot in many lowland areas, not just by changing the breed but also by feeding them better.

Even though it takes a long time for cattle to become valuable enough to make it worth farming land just to feed them, they are likely the first part of this rough farming to bring a good price. Until they do, it seems impossible for farming to improve to the level it has in many parts of Europe.