The Wealth of Nations

They allowed exporting silver bars but not silver coins. This made people want silver bars more than silver coins. However, way more people need silver coins for everyday buying and selling than those who want silver bars for exporting or anything else. Right now, you can also export gold bars but not gold coins, and the price of gold bars has dropped below what it should be. 

Back then, silver coins were valued less compared to gold coins, just like they are now. The gold coins, which didn’t seem to need any changes, set the real value for all coins. Since fixing the silver coins didn’t lower the price of silver bars to what it should be, it’s unlikely that fixing them now will change anything.

If silver coins were brought back to their proper weight like gold coins, a guinea would probably buy more silver coins than it would in bars. If the silver coins had their full weight, it would actually be profitable to melt them down to sell as bars, then use that gold to buy silver coins, which could also be melted down. Changing the current value seems like the only way to fix this issue.

The problem might be less if silver was valued higher in coins, as long as it was decided that silver couldn’t be used for more than the change of a guinea, just like how copper can only be used for small amounts. This way, no one could get cheated because of the high value of silver coins, just like how no one gets cheated with copper. Only the bankers would be affected by this rule. When people rush to take their money out, bankers sometimes try to buy time by paying in small coins, but this rule would stop them from doing that. They would have to keep more cash on hand all the time, which might be a hassle for them, but it would also protect the people who have money with them.

Three pounds seventeen shillings and tenpence halfpenny (the price of gold) doesn’t even have more than an ounce of standard gold in our current coins, so it might seem like it shouldn’t buy more standard gold than it does.