The capital of Holland is so huge that it keeps overflowing. Sometimes it goes into the public funds of other countries, sometimes it gets loaned to private traders in other countries, and sometimes it gets used in various foreign trades. Since all the local jobs are filled and all the capital that can be used for decent profit is already invested, Holland's capital has to go towards more distant opportunities. If the trade to the East Indies was completely open, it would probably take up most of this extra capital. The East Indies have a bigger market for European goods and for gold and silver than Europe and America combined.

If money isn’t distributed naturally, it can hurt the society where it happens. This can happen if money that should go to one trade is kept away from it, or if money that shouldn’t go to a certain trade is attracted to it. If Holland could trade with the East Indies without any exclusive company, it would probably do better than it currently does. In that case, Holland would lose out because some of its capital wouldn’t be used in the best way for that port. Similarly, if Sweden and Denmark could trade with the East Indies without an exclusive company and their trade was less than it is now, or maybe didn’t happen at all, they would also lose out because their capital would be used in a way that doesn’t fit their current situation. It might be better for them to buy East India goods from other countries, even if it costs a bit more, instead of sending a lot of their small capital to such a faraway trade where they get returns slowly. This way, they can keep more productive jobs at home, where they really need them.

So, even if a country can’t trade directly with the East Indies without an exclusive company, it doesn’t mean that such a company should be created. It just means that the country shouldn’t trade directly under those circumstances. The experience of the Portuguese shows that these companies aren’t really needed for East India trade. They managed to control almost all of it for over a century without any exclusive company. 

No private merchant, it has been said, could well have capital.