The Wealth of Nations

Let’s say the value of silver has dropped a lot, just like interest rates have. In places where interest went from ten percent to five percent, the same amount of silver can now buy only half the stuff it could before. This idea might not be true everywhere, but it helps us understand what we’re talking about. Even if silver’s value goes down, it doesn’t mean interest rates will go down too. If £100 today is worth the same as £50 was before, then £10 today is worth the same as £5 was back then. Whatever made the value of money drop also made the interest drop by the same amount. The relationship between how much money you have and how much interest you earn stays the same, even if the interest rate doesn’t change. But if we change the interest rate, that relationship gets messed up. So, if £100 now is worth the same as £50 was, then £5 today can only be worth £2.50 from before. By lowering the interest rate from ten percent to five percent, we’re saying that the money we’re using is worth half of what it used to be, but we’re only getting a quarter of the interest we used to get.

If there’s more silver but the amount of stuff we can buy with it stays the same, the value of silver will go down. The prices of things might look higher, but their actual value stays the same. You’ll need more silver to buy the same stuff, but the amount of work or jobs it can support won’t change. The total amount of money in the country stays the same, even if you need more silver coins to move it around. The paperwork might get more complicated, but the actual money and what it can do is still the same. Since the funds for paying workers are unchanged, the demand for work stays the same too. So, even if wages look higher because of more silver, they really aren’t. Workers will get paid with more silver coins, but they’ll still only be able to buy the same amount of stuff. The profits from investments will also stay the same, both in name and in reality. Wages are usually counted by how much silver a worker gets paid.