The Wealth of Nations

Back in the day, the kingdom's trade was mostly about mining. To help the mining industry, a law from the time of William and Mary allowed British iron, copper, and a type of metal called mundic to be exported without restrictions. Later, another law during William III's reign allowed all kinds of copper bars, whether from Britain or other countries, to be exported too. However, there are still rules against exporting unprocessed brass and certain types of metal used for making guns and bells. But you can export brass products without paying extra taxes.

When it comes to exporting materials for making things, there are often high taxes unless it’s completely banned. A law from George I made it so that many manufactured goods from Great Britain could be exported without paying taxes, but some items were still taxed. These included things like alum, lead, tin, leather, coal, wool, and various types of animal hair. Most of these items are either raw materials or unfinished products that can be used to make other things, or they are tools for trade. This law kept the old taxes on these items in place.

The same law also made it easier to bring in certain foreign dyes for making colors, as they didn’t have to pay taxes when imported. However, there was a small tax when these dyes were exported. The dyers thought it was smart to encourage bringing in these dyes without taxes but also wanted to make it a bit harder to export them. This plan probably backfired because it made importers more careful about not bringing in too much, which meant there might not be enough for the local market. Because of this, prices at home were likely to be higher than they would have been if exporting was as easy as importing.

According to the same law, a dye called gum senega, or gum arabic, could be brought in without paying taxes. There was a small tax of threepence for every hundred weight when it was exported again. At that time, France had a special trade deal with the country that produced a lot of these dyes.