The Wealth of Nations

The rich church leaders often ignore the needs of the people, and right now, it’s mostly the dissenters and Methodists who are helping out. In many places, there are some funds set up for dissenting teachers through donations and other ways to get around the law. However, this seems to have made those teachers less enthusiastic and active. Many of them have become smart and respected, but they aren’t as popular as they used to be. The Methodists, who don’t have as much education, are actually more popular.

In the Roman Catholic Church, the lower-level priests are more motivated by their own needs than in most Protestant churches. Many of these priests rely on donations from the people for their income, and they have plenty of chances to earn more through confession. The mendicant orders, which are groups of monks, depend entirely on these donations. They are like soldiers who only get paid if they go out and fight. The local priests are similar to teachers who earn money from both their salary and fees from students, which depends on how hard they work and how well-known they are. The mendicant monks are like teachers who only survive based on their effort. They have to do everything they can to inspire the common people. 

Machiavel noted that the creation of the two main mendicant orders, St. Dominic and St. Francis, helped revive the fading faith of the Catholic Church in the 13th and 14th centuries. In Catholic countries, the monks and poorer priests keep the spirit of devotion alive. The higher church leaders, who are often well-educated and sophisticated, focus on keeping order among their subordinates but usually don’t bother teaching the people.

A famous philosopher and historian said, “Most jobs in society help both the community and individuals. So, the rule for leaders is to let these jobs run themselves and trust that those who benefit will support them. Workers, seeing that their profits go up thanks to their customers, will work harder to improve their skills. As long as things aren’t messed up by bad decisions…”