If people start thinking differently about certain jobs, the pay for those jobs would go down fast. More people would want those jobs, and that would make the pay lower because of competition. Even though some skills are not super common, they’re not as rare as people think. A lot of people are really good at these skills but choose not to use them, and many more could learn them if they could earn a decent living from them.

Most people have a big ego about their own skills, and this has been pointed out by thinkers for a long time. People also tend to think they’re lucky, which is even more common. Everyone, when they feel okay, has some level of this belief. People usually think they can win more than they actually can and don’t take losses seriously enough. Most people who are feeling good don’t really understand how much they might lose.

We can see how people overvalue winning by looking at lotteries. There has never been a totally fair lottery where the total winnings equal the total losses because the organizers wouldn’t make any money. In state lotteries, the tickets are often worth less than what people pay for them, but they still sell for much more because of the hope of winning big prizes. Even sensible people don’t see it as foolish to spend a little money for a chance to win a lot, even if that little bit is more than what the chance is actually worth. If a lottery only had small prizes, not many people would buy tickets.

To have a better shot at winning big prizes, some people buy multiple tickets, while others buy shares in many tickets. But it’s a fact that the more tickets you buy, the more likely you are to lose. If you buy all the tickets, you’re guaranteed to lose, and the more tickets you have, the closer you get to that certainty.

People often underestimate the risk of losing, and they rarely value it correctly. We can see this in how little profit insurance companies make. To keep insurance a viable business, the fees must cover the usual losses, pay for running the company, and still allow for some profit.