If people in a community have complaints, they can get their taxes adjusted the next year to make up for it. If someone can’t pay their taxes because they go bankrupt, the person collecting the taxes has to cover that amount. Then, the community has to pay that back the next year. If the collector goes bankrupt, the community that chose them has to answer for what happened. But instead of going after the whole community, the tax official usually picks a few of the wealthiest people to pay back what was lost. Then, the community has to pay more taxes to reimburse those wealthy individuals. These extra taxes are added on top of the regular taxes for that year.

When a tax is added on the profits from a specific type of business, the business owners are careful not to bring too many goods to sell. They only bring what they can sell at a price that covers the tax. Some might even hold back some of their goods, which makes the market less crowded. This causes prices to go up, and in the end, the customers end up paying more.

But when a tax is put on the profits from farming, farmers can’t just pull back on what they produce. Each farmer has a set amount of land they rent, and they need a certain amount of equipment and resources to farm that land properly. If they reduce their resources, they can’t pay their rent or taxes. So, they can’t raise prices to cover the tax because they need to keep producing enough to pay their bills. 

Farmers still need to make a reasonable profit like anyone else, or they’ll have to quit farming. After a tax like this is imposed, they can only make that profit by paying less rent to the landowner. The more they have to pay in taxes, the less they can afford to pay in rent. If a tax like this is added while they have a lease, it can really hurt or even ruin them. But when the lease is up for renewal, the tax burden usually shifts back to the landowner.

In places where personal taxes are collected, farmers are often taxed based on how much equipment they seem to use. Because of this, they might be scared to invest in good tools or animals for farming. They might try to farm with the cheapest and worst equipment they can find. They don’t trust that the tax assessors will be fair.