The Wealth of Nations

Some people think that setting a limit on how much interest can be charged helps protect borrowers from being taken advantage of. In places where charging interest is allowed, the law usually sets a maximum rate to stop lenders from being greedy. This maximum should be a bit higher than the lowest rate that people pay for borrowing money, especially those who can be trusted to pay it back. 

If the legal maximum is set too low, it can cause problems similar to completely banning interest. Lenders won’t want to give out money for less than what it’s worth, and borrowers will have to pay extra to cover the risk of borrowing. If the legal rate is set exactly at the lowest market rate, it can hurt honest people who follow the law. They might struggle to get loans and end up having to borrow from shady lenders who charge way too much. In a place like Great Britain, where the government borrows money at three percent and private borrowers pay four to four and a half percent, a legal rate of five percent seems fair.

It's important to note that while the legal rate should be a bit higher than the lowest market rate, it shouldn't be too high. For example, if the legal rate in Great Britain was set at eight or ten percent, most loans would only go to people who are reckless or have wild ideas, since they would be the only ones willing to pay that much interest. Responsible borrowers, who only want to pay a reasonable amount, wouldn’t even try to compete. This would mean that a lot of money would end up in the hands of people who might waste it instead of those who would use it wisely.

When the legal interest rate is only slightly above the lowest market rate, responsible borrowers are preferred over reckless ones. Lenders can earn almost as much interest from responsible borrowers, and their money is safer with them. This way, more money is used effectively and helps the economy grow.

No law can lower the common interest rate below the lowest market rate when the law is made. For example, in 1766, the French king tried to lower the interest rate from five to four percent, but people still lent money at five percent because they found ways to get around the law. 

Also, the usual market price of land depends on...