The Wealth of Nations

This chapter will be split into three parts about manufactured goods.

Part I: The Produce of Land that Always Provides Rent

People, like all animals, tend to grow in number based on how much food they can get. Food is always needed, and it can buy different amounts of work from people. There will always be someone willing to work for food. The amount of work food can buy isn’t always the same as what it could support if used wisely, mainly because sometimes workers get paid a lot. But food can always buy enough work to support the usual pay in the area.

Land, in almost any place, produces more food than is needed to support all the workers who help get that food to market, even when those workers are paid well. There’s usually extra food that can replace what was used and still make a profit. So, there’s always something left over that can be paid as rent to the landowner.

Even the most barren lands in Norway and Scotland can grow some grass for cattle. The milk and calves produced are usually enough to support the workers taking care of them and to give some profit to the farmer or landowner, plus a little rent to the landlord. The rent goes up if the grass is better. The same amount of land can support more cattle, and since they’re closer together, it takes less work to care for them and gather their products. The landlord benefits in two ways: from the increased produce and from needing less labor.

The rent for land changes not just based on how fertile it is, but also on where it is located. Land near a town earns more rent than equally fertile land that’s far away. Even if it takes the same amount of work to farm both, it costs more to transport the produce from the distant land to the market. This means more work needs to be supported by that land, which reduces the extra profit that goes to the farmer and the rent for the landlord. However, in remote areas, the profit rate is usually higher than near a big town. So, a smaller part of this reduced extra profit goes to the landlord.