The best jobs in the navy don’t usually get as much respect or fame as similar jobs in the army. This difference is true for all levels of jobs in both areas. For example, a navy captain is seen as equal to an army colonel in rank, but not in how people view them. 

Since the big rewards in the navy are smaller, there are more smaller rewards available. This means regular sailors often have a better chance of getting some good fortune compared to regular soldiers. The chance of winning these smaller rewards is what makes being a sailor appealing. Even though sailors are usually more skilled and face tougher challenges than many other workers, they don’t get much more than the satisfaction of using their skills and overcoming difficulties. Their pay is about the same as that of regular workers at the ports where they work. 

Sailors travel from port to port, so their monthly pay is pretty similar across different places. The pay at the busiest port, London, sets the standard for other ports. In London, most workers earn about double what workers in Edinburgh make. However, sailors from London don’t usually earn much more than those from Leith, and sometimes the difference isn’t even that big. When there’s peace and they work for merchants, sailors in London make between one guinea and twenty-seven shillings a month. A regular worker in London can earn around forty to forty-five shillings a month. Sailors also get food provided, but the value of that food might not always make up for the difference in pay compared to regular workers. Plus, any extra they get can’t help their families back home since they have to support them with their wages.

The dangers and exciting experiences of being an adventurer often attract young people instead of scaring them away. A worried mother might hesitate to send her son to school in a port town because she fears he’ll be tempted by the ships and sailors to join them at sea. The idea of facing risks, which we think we can handle with bravery and skill, can actually be exciting for us.