Adam Smith says it's usually better for a person to buy beer from a brewer instead of making it themselves. If someone isn't good at brewing, it's often smarter for them to buy small amounts from a store rather than a lot from the brewer. Sure, they could end up buying too much from any seller, like a butcher if they eat too much, or a clothing store if they want to show off. 

Even though people can misuse their freedom to buy things, it's still good for most workers that they have the choice to buy freely. Some individuals might waste their money on too much alcohol, but that doesn't usually happen on a national level. In every country, there are people who spend too much on drinks, but there are always more who spend less. 

Interestingly, cheaper wine doesn't lead to more drunkenness; in fact, it seems to help people stay sober. For example, people in wine-producing countries like Spain, Italy, and southern France are generally more sober. They don't go overboard with what they drink every day. When wine is as cheap as beer, no one tries to show off by drinking a lot. 

In places where wine is rare and expensive, like very hot or cold countries, drunkenness is more common. This is true for northern countries and some tropical areas. When soldiers from northern France, where wine costs more, move to the south where it's cheap, they might drink a lot at first. But after a while, they usually become as sober as the locals. 

If the taxes on foreign wines and local beers were removed all at once in Great Britain, it might cause a temporary spike in drinking among regular people, but it would likely lead to a long-term trend of sobriety. Right now, drinking too much isn't really a problem for wealthy people who can afford expensive drinks. You hardly ever see a gentleman getting drunk on beer. The rules around wine in Great Britain seem more about keeping people from getting the best and cheapest drinks rather than stopping them from going to the pub. They support the wine trade from Portugal but make it harder for people to buy other types of alcohol.