The Wealth of Nations

If a country has a lot of materials for making clothes but doesn't trade with other countries, most of those materials would just go to waste, and the landlord wouldn’t make any money from them.

Materials for building houses can’t always be moved as easily as clothing materials, and they aren’t as likely to be sold to other countries. Even today, if a country has too much of these materials, they might not be worth anything to the landlord. For example, a good stone quarry near London can make a lot of money, but in some parts of Scotland and Wales, it doesn’t earn anything. 

In busy and well-developed areas, even useless trees can be valuable, and the land they grow on can earn a lot of rent. But in some parts of North America, landlords would be happy if someone took away their big trees. In some areas of the Highlands in Scotland, only the bark of the trees can be sold because there are no good roads or rivers to transport the wood, so the timber just rots. When there are too many materials for building, the part that is used is only worth the effort and cost to prepare it. It doesn’t earn any rent for the landlord, who usually lets anyone use it if they ask. However, sometimes wealthier countries can help the landlord earn rent from it. For example, paving the streets in London has allowed owners of some useless rocks in Scotland to make money from them. 

Countries have more people not based on how many they can house or clothe, but on how many they can feed. When there is enough food, it’s easy to find clothes and houses. But even if clothes and houses are available, finding food can still be tough. In some parts of Britain, a simple house can be built in just one day by one person. The easiest clothing, like animal skins, takes a bit more work to prepare, but not a lot. In less developed societies, people only need to work a small part of the year to get enough clothing and housing for most of the population. The rest of their time is mostly spent finding food. But when land is improved and farmed better, one family can grow enough food for two families, meaning half the work can feed more people.