The Wealth of Nations

The colonies might need some big changes in how Britain taxes them.

It's really hard to figure out how much money this tax system could bring in from all the different parts of the empire. In Great Britain, with less than eight million people, they collect over ten million in taxes every year. Ireland has more than two million people, and the twelve American colonies have over three million. But those numbers might be a bit exaggerated to either boost their own people’s spirits or scare the British. So, let's say our North American and Caribbean colonies have about three million people total, and that the whole British empire, in Europe and America, has around thirteen million people.

If Britain can raise more than ten million from less than eight million people, then with thirteen million people, they should be able to collect over sixteen million two hundred fifty thousand pounds. But from that money, they need to take out what they usually collect in Ireland and the colonies to pay for their local governments. The costs for Ireland's government and military, plus the interest on their debt, were about seven hundred fifty thousand pounds a year on average for the two years ending in March 1775. 

Before the current issues started, the total revenue from the main American and Caribbean colonies was about one hundred forty-one thousand eight hundred pounds. However, this didn’t include Maryland, North Carolina, and other recent additions, which might add another thirty or forty thousand pounds. So, to keep things simple, let’s say the money needed to support the governments in Ireland and the colonies is about a million pounds. That means there would be around fifteen million two hundred fifty thousand pounds left to cover the overall costs of the empire and pay off the public debt.

If Britain could set aside a million pounds from their current revenue for the debt during peaceful times, they could easily spare six million two hundred fifty thousand pounds from this new revenue. This extra money could also grow each year from the interest on the debt.