The Wealth of Nations

There are no rich planters like the ones we see coming from our sugar islands. It seems that in those colonies, they prefer growing tobacco over corn. This means that Europe still needs more tobacco, but maybe not as much sugar. Right now, the price of tobacco is probably enough to cover all the costs of growing and selling it, similar to how things are done with corn. However, the price of sugar is likely higher than that of tobacco.

Our tobacco farmers are worried about having too much tobacco, just like the old vineyard owners in France worry about having too much wine. To control this, they have made rules that limit how many tobacco plants can be grown. They think that for every worker between sixteen and sixty years old, they should only grow six thousand plants, which should produce a thousand pounds of tobacco. Besides that, each worker can also take care of four acres of corn. To avoid flooding the market, they sometimes burn some tobacco in good years, similar to what the Dutch do with spices. If they have to take such extreme measures to keep tobacco prices up, then the benefits of growing it over corn might not last long.

This is how the rent for land that grows food for people affects the rent for most other types of land. If a certain crop can’t make enough money, the land will be used for something else. If a crop can make more money, it’s usually because there isn’t enough land available to grow it to meet demand.

In Europe, corn is the main crop that provides food for people. So, unless there are special cases, the rent for corn land sets the standard for the rent of all other land. Britain doesn’t need to be jealous of the vineyards in France or the olive farms in Italy. In most cases, the value of those crops is determined by corn, and Britain’s land is almost as fertile as theirs. If in any country, the main food of the people comes from a plant that can produce much more than corn, the landlord’s rent or the extra food left after paying workers and covering costs will definitely be affected.