The Wealth of Nations

In some cases, the taxes on property transfers match the value of what’s being sold, and in other cases, they don’t. All wills have to be written on special stamped paper, and the cost of the stamp depends on how much the property is worth. Stamps can cost anywhere from a few pennies to hundreds of florins, which is a lot of money. If someone uses a cheaper stamp than they should have, their inheritance can be taken away. This is in addition to other taxes on inheritance.

Most legal documents, like contracts and bonds, have to pay a stamp duty, except for things like bills of exchange. But the stamp duty doesn’t always increase with the value of what’s being sold. When land or houses are sold, or when someone takes out a mortgage, they have to register it and pay a tax of 2.5% of the sale price or mortgage amount. This tax also applies to boats that weigh more than two tons because they are seen as floating houses. If personal items are sold through a court order, they also have to pay the same 2.5% tax.

In France, there are both stamp duties and registration fees. Stamp duties are collected by excise officers, while registration fees are collected by different officials. These types of taxes are fairly new, but in just over a hundred years, stamp duties have become common in Europe, and registration fees are also widely used. Governments quickly learn how to take money from people.

Taxes on transferring property from someone who has died to someone who is alive ultimately fall on the people receiving the property. Taxes on selling land are paid by the seller. Sellers often have to sell and will take whatever price they can get. Buyers, on the other hand, don’t usually have to buy and will only pay what they think is fair. They consider the total cost, including taxes. The more they have to pay in taxes, the less they will offer for the property. This means that taxes often hit people who really need to sell, making it tough for them.

When new houses are sold without the land, the buyer usually pays the tax because the builder needs to make a profit. If the builder pays the tax upfront, the buyer will likely end up paying for it in the end.