The Wealth of Nations

Raising wages for workers in any job isn’t always possible. But in jobs that are really unhealthy or unpleasant, workers usually get paid a lot more. Being unhealthy is a type of unpleasantness, and it affects how much workers earn.

In different types of businesses, the usual profit changes depending on how certain or uncertain the returns are. Generally, returns are less uncertain in local trade than in foreign trade, and some foreign trades are less risky than others. For example, trading with North America is usually safer than trading with Jamaica. The usual profit tends to go up with more risk, but it doesn’t always go up enough to cover that risk completely. Businesses that are very risky often face more bankruptcies. 

The riskiest business, like smuggling, can be super profitable if it works out, but it often leads to bankruptcy. People are drawn to these risky businesses because they hope to succeed, but too many people trying to do the same thing can drive profits down below what’s needed to cover the risk. To really cover the risk, the returns should not only make up for losses but also provide extra profit, like what insurance does. If the returns were enough to do all that, bankruptcies wouldn’t happen as often.

So, out of five things that affect workers' wages, only two really impact business profits: how pleasant or unpleasant the job is, and how risky or safe it is. Most jobs in business don’t have much difference in how pleasant they are, but there’s a big difference in labor jobs. While business profits go up with risk, they don’t always increase enough to match it. This means that in the same area, the average profits in different businesses should be more similar than the wages of different types of workers.

And they are. The gap between what a regular worker earns and what a successful lawyer or doctor makes is much bigger than the difference in profits between two types of businesses. Also, the difference in profits between different trades can often be misleading because we don’t always see what should be counted as wages versus what should be counted as profit.