They didn't make a smart choice when they built a stone wall around a kitchen garden. The money they spent on the wall wasn't worth the little profit they got. The bricks would break down from rain and winter storms, and they needed constant fixing. Columella, who shared Democritus's opinion, didn't argue against it but suggested a cheaper way to enclose the garden using a hedge made of thorny bushes. He said this method worked well and lasted a long time, but it wasn't widely known back in Democritus's day. Palladius agreed with Columella, who had been supported by Varro before him.

According to these ancient farmers, the food from a kitchen garden barely covered the extra work and cost of watering it. In sunny places, just like today, it was important to have access to a stream of water to keep the garden beds watered. In most of Europe now, a kitchen garden is still thought to need only the kind of fence Columella suggested. In Britain and some northern countries, though, you can't grow good fruits without a wall. So, the price of those fruits has to be high enough to cover the cost of building and maintaining the wall. Often, the fruit wall surrounds the kitchen garden, giving it protection that the garden's own produce usually can't pay for.

It was clear to ancient farmers that a well-planted vineyard was the most valuable part of a farm, just like it is today in wine-producing areas. However, whether it was worth it to plant a new vineyard was debated among old Italian farmers, as Columella tells us. He, being a fan of farming, supported the idea of new vineyards and tried to show that the profits would outweigh the costs. But comparing profits and costs for new projects can be tricky, especially in farming. If the profits from these new vineyards were as high as he thought, there wouldn't have been any arguments about it. This same debate still happens today in wine-producing regions. Writers who love farming usually side with Columella in favor of vineyards. In France, the worry of old vineyard owners about new ones being planted seems to support this view, showing that those with experience believe in it.