The Wealth of Nations

They can find workers to hire.

Even if a country is really rich, if it hasn’t changed much for a long time, we can’t expect the pay for workers to be very high. The money set aside to pay workers and the wealth of the people might be huge, but if it has stayed the same for many years, there will be enough workers every year to fill the jobs available. There won’t be a shortage of workers, and employers won’t have to compete to hire them. Instead, there will be too many workers for the jobs available. This means workers will have to compete with each other to find work. If in such a country the pay for workers was ever enough to support a worker and their family, the competition among workers and what employers want will quickly bring the pay down to the lowest level that is still fair.

China has been one of the richest countries in the world for a long time. It is very fertile, well-farmed, hard-working, and has a large population. However, it seems to have stayed the same for a long time. Marco Polo visited China over five hundred years ago and described its farming, industry, and population in almost the same way that travelers do today. It might have reached its limit of wealth long before his time because of its laws and systems. Travelers, even if they disagree on other things, all agree that workers in China earn low wages and struggle to support their families. If a worker spends all day digging, they might earn just enough to buy a little rice for dinner, and they are okay with that. 

The situation for skilled workers is even worse. Instead of waiting for customers like they do in Europe, they are always running around the streets with their tools, trying to find work, almost begging for jobs. The poverty of the lower-class people in China is much worse than in the poorest countries in Europe. Near Canton, it’s said that many hundreds, maybe even thousands, of families don’t have homes on land and live all the time in small fishing boats on rivers and canals. The food they find is so little that they eagerly fish out the worst trash thrown overboard from European ships. Even a dead dog or cat, even if it’s rotten and smells bad, is as good to them as healthy food is to other people.