The Wealth of Nations

In Scotland, people can knit stockings much cheaper than they can make them on a loom. These stockings are made by workers who usually have other jobs to support themselves. Every year, over a thousand pairs of Shetland stockings are brought into Leith, costing between five and seven pence each. In Lerwick, a town in the Shetland Islands, workers often earn ten pence a day. In those islands, they also make fancy worsted stockings that can sell for a guinea or more.

In Scotland, spinning linen yarn is done similarly to knitting stockings, with workers mostly hired for different jobs. Those trying to make a living from these trades often earn very little. In many parts of Scotland, a good spinner can make about twenty pence a week.

In wealthy countries, the market is usually big enough that one job can support all the workers in that field. People often have one main job and might earn a little extra from another, especially in poorer countries. However, there’s an interesting example in London, which is a very rich city. Even though rent is super high in London, you can actually find furnished apartments for a good price. Renting a place in London is cheaper than in Paris and even cheaper than in Edinburgh if you compare similar quality.

The high rent in London comes from several reasons. It’s expensive because of high labor costs, the cost of building materials that often have to be brought in from far away, and especially high ground rent. Landlords often charge a lot for even a small piece of land in the city. Plus, the way people live there makes it so that every family has to rent an entire house. In England, a house means everything under one roof, while in places like France and Scotland, it can just mean one floor of a building.

A shop owner in London has to rent a whole house where his customers are. His shop is on the ground floor, and he and his family sleep in the top part of the house. He tries to cover some of his rent by renting out the middle floors to others.