Adam Smith agreed that the king could take some money from the profits of their own tenants. They didn’t mind if he also took money from a group of people they didn’t care as much about. Back then, people didn’t really understand that merchants’ profits shouldn’t be taxed directly. They also didn’t realize that the taxes would eventually be paid by the consumers, but with extra costs.

People thought that profits from foreign merchants were worse than those from English merchants. So, it made sense to tax foreign merchants more than English ones. This unfair treatment started because of ignorance but continued because of a desire to help local merchants compete better, both at home and abroad.

Because of this unfairness, old customs duties were applied to all kinds of goods, whether they were necessary or luxury items, and whether they were being exported or imported. It seemed like people thought that merchants selling one type of goods should not get special treatment over those selling another type. They also wondered why merchants exporting goods should be treated better than those importing them.

The old customs duties were split into three parts. The first and probably the oldest duty was on wool and leather, mainly for exports. When woolen cloth became popular in England, the king wanted to make sure he didn’t lose money from wool exports, so he added a similar tax on woolen cloths. The other two parts were a tax on wine, called tonnage, which was charged by the ton, and a tax on all other goods, called poundage, which was charged based on their value per pound.

In the forty-seventh year of Edward III, a tax of sixpence per pound was added to all goods being exported and imported, except for wool, leather, and wine, which had their own specific taxes. In the fourteenth year of Richard II, this tax was raised to one shilling per pound, but three years later, it went back down to sixpence. It was then raised to eightpence during Henry IV’s second year and back to one shilling in his fourth year. This tax stayed at one shilling per pound until the ninth year of William III.

The tonnage and poundage taxes were usually given to the king through one law and were called the subsidy of tonnage and poundage. Since the poundage tax stayed at one shilling for a long time, it became known as a general duty of five percent, which was referred to as a subsidy in customs language.