The Wealth of Nations

The exchange rate between England and France was only a little bit off, maybe two or three percent. So, if the exchange rate was not more than that against England, it could actually be better for England. Since England fixed its gold coins, the exchange rate has usually favored England over France.

In some countries, the government pays for making coins, while in others, regular people do it by bringing their metal to the mint. The government can even make some money from this process. In England, the government covers the cost, so if you take a pound of silver to the mint, you get back sixty-two shillings, which is also a pound of silver. In France, they take an eight percent fee for making coins, which helps pay for the process and gives the government some extra cash. Because it doesn’t cost anything to make coins in England, the coins can’t be worth much more than the metal they’re made from. But in France, the extra work that goes into making the coins adds to their value, like with fancy silver plates.

So, if you have French money that weighs the same as English money made of pure silver, the French money is worth more. This means you would need more silver or other goods to buy it. Even if both countries’ coins are similar in quality, English money wouldn’t be able to buy as much French money that has the same amount of silver. If you were to pay for a bill in France without adding extra money beyond the cost of making the coins, the exchange rate might look equal, but England could actually be getting a better deal while France looks better on paper.

Lastly, in some cities like Amsterdam and Venice, foreign bills are paid in something called bank money, while in places like London and Lisbon, they use the regular currency. Bank money is always worth more than the same amount in regular currency. For example, a thousand guilders in the Amsterdam bank is worth more than a thousand guilders in regular money. The difference in value is called the agio, which is usually about five percent in Amsterdam. If both countries' money is similar in quality but one uses regular currency and the other uses bank money, it’s clear that the bank money is worth more.