The French colony of Canada was mostly run by a single company for a long time, which made its growth really slow compared to other new colonies. But things changed and picked up speed when that company was shut down after a big failure called the Mississippi scheme. When the English took over, they found almost double the number of people living there compared to what a guy named Father Charlevoix had said about twenty to thirty years earlier. He had traveled all over Canada and didn’t try to make it seem smaller than it actually was.

The French colony of St. Domingo was started by pirates and people who didn’t really care about France. For a long time, they didn’t want France’s protection or rules. When they finally accepted France’s authority, it was important to be really gentle with them. During this time, the colony grew quickly. Even though the exclusive company that controlled it for a while slowed things down, it didn’t stop its growth completely. Once that company was out of the way, the colony thrived again. Now, it’s the most important sugar colony in the West Indies, producing more sugar than all the English sugar colonies combined. Other French sugar colonies are also doing well.

But no colonies grew faster than the English ones in North America. The main reasons for their success seem to be having lots of good land and the freedom to run their own affairs. 

While the English colonies in North America have plenty of good land, they don’t have as much as the Spanish and Portuguese colonies, and they’re not better than some of the French lands before the last war. However, the way the English colonies are set up has helped them improve and use their land better than the other countries.

First, the rules about land ownership in the English colonies have been stricter than in other colonies. There are laws that require landowners to improve and farm a certain amount of their land within a specific time. If they don’t, that land can be taken away and given to someone else.