The way poor workers buy things is usually just as cheap, or even cheaper, in big cities than in the more remote areas of the country. There are reasons for this that I will explain later. However, the pay for workers in a big city and nearby areas is often 20% to 25% higher than just a few miles away. 

For example, in London and nearby, workers typically earn about 18 pence a day. But if you go a little further away, it drops to around 14 or 15 pence. In Edinburgh, the common pay is about 10 pence, but just a few miles away, it can go down to 8 pence, which is the usual pay in most of lowland Scotland. This difference in pay is often not enough to make someone move from one area to another, but it does lead to a lot of movement of big goods from one place to another, even across the country or the world, to balance things out. 

Despite what people say about how unpredictable humans can be, experience shows that people are the hardest to move around compared to other things. So, if poor workers can support their families in places where pay is lower, they must be doing really well where pay is higher.

Also, the changes in labor prices don’t match up with the prices of food, and sometimes they even go in opposite directions. For example, grain, which is a staple food for regular people, is more expensive in Scotland than in England, which is why Scotland often gets a lot of grain from England. But when English grain is sold in Scotland, it has to be priced higher than in England. However, it can’t be sold for more than the local Scottish grain that competes with it. 

The quality of grain is mostly based on how much flour or meal it produces at the mill. English grain is usually better quality than Scottish grain, so even if it looks more expensive, it’s often cheaper when you consider its quality. On the other hand, labor is more expensive in England than in Scotland. So, if workers can take care of their families in one part of the UK, they must be doing even better in the other part. In Scotland, oatmeal is a major food source for regular people, but it’s generally not as good as what people in England eat.