The Wealth of Nations

A merchant buys a lot of corn at a regular price and sells it for a much higher price. However, the extra money he makes is just enough to keep his business on the same level as other businesses and to cover the losses he faces from things like corn going bad or prices changing unexpectedly. It’s clear that people don’t usually get rich from this trade, just like in any other business. 

But during times when corn is scarce, which is when it can be really profitable, people start to dislike the trade. This makes wealthy and respected people not want to get involved. As a result, the trade is left to less reputable sellers like millers, bakers, and other small-time dealers, who are the main ones selling corn to consumers.

In the past, Europe’s rules didn’t help change this negative view of a trade that was actually good for everyone. For example, a law from the time of Edward VI said that if someone bought corn to sell it again, they would be seen as breaking the law. The punishment for the first offense was two months in jail and losing the corn. For a second offense, it was six months in jail and losing double the corn’s value. The third time, they would be publicly punished, spend more time in jail, and lose everything they owned. Other parts of Europe had similar rules.

Our ancestors thought people would get corn cheaper directly from farmers instead of from corn merchants, who they believed would charge too much. So, they tried to get rid of the merchant trade altogether. They wanted to stop any middlemen from getting involved between farmers and consumers. This is why there were so many rules against people called "kidders" or corn carriers. They needed a special license to operate, which showed they were trustworthy. Three local judges had to approve this license. But even that wasn’t enough later on, and another law limited who could give out these licenses even more.

Overall, Europe’s old rules tried to control farming, which was a major business, in ways that were very different from how they handled other types of trade.