The Wealth of Nations

There are two types of things that can be produced, and the second type is what people can make more of based on how much is needed. This includes useful plants and animals that grow naturally in wild areas. At first, these things are super common and not worth much. But as people start farming and improving the land, these wild plants and animals start to disappear because farmers want to grow things that make more money.

For a long time, the amount of these wild resources goes down, but the need for them keeps going up. Because of this, their value increases. Eventually, they can become just as valuable as anything else that can be grown on the best farmland. Once their value gets really high, it can’t go up much more. If it did, farmers would start using more land and effort to grow more of these resources.

Take cattle, for example. If the price of cattle goes up so much that it’s just as profitable to grow food for them as it is to grow food for people, then it can’t go up much higher. If it did, more farmland would be used to raise cattle instead of crops. When farmers grow more crops, there’s less wild land for cattle to graze, which means there’s less meat available. As more people have crops or money to trade for meat, the demand goes up. So, the price of meat and cattle has to keep rising until it’s just as profitable to grow food for them as it is to grow crops.

But this doesn’t happen until later in the farming process. Until then, if the country is improving, the price of cattle will keep going up. Some places in Europe might not have reached this high price for cattle yet. For example, before the Union, cattle prices in Scotland hadn’t reached this level. If Scottish cattle had only been sold in Scotland, where there’s a lot of land for cattle compared to land for other uses, it’s unlikely their price would have ever gone up enough to make it worth it to grow food just for them.

In England, around the beginning of the last century, cattle prices near London seemed to have reached this high point, but it took much longer in other areas.