The Wealth of Nations

Trade between France and England is often seen as unimportant and looked down upon. Because of this attitude, both countries have put many rules and limits on their trade with each other. However, if they could look at what’s best for them without being jealous or angry, trading with each other could actually be more beneficial than trading with any other country.

France is really close to England. If they traded between the southern coast of England and the northern coast of France, they could do it four, five, or even six times a year, just like they do with trade within their own countries. This means that the money used for this trade could create a lot more jobs and help many more people than trading with other countries. Even if they traded from the farthest parts of France and England, they could still expect to trade at least once a year, which would still be better than most other foreign trades.

In fact, trading with France would be at least three times better than trading with the North American colonies, where it often took three to five years to get anything back. France has about 24 million people, while the North American colonies only had around 3 million. Plus, France is generally richer, even though there’s more poverty there. So, France could provide a market that is at least eight times bigger and, because they could trade more often, it would be twenty-four times better than what the North American colonies could offer.

The trade that Great Britain has with France would also be just as good for France. When you think about how wealthy, populated, and close the two countries are, their trade would be much better than the trade France has with its own colonies. This shows how different the trade that both countries have chosen to support is from the trade they have discouraged.

But the same reasons that could make trading freely between the two countries so good for both of them are also what stops that trade from happening. Since they are neighbors, they often see each other as enemies, and that makes each country want to protect its own wealth and power.