Adam Smith

The mercantile system hasn’t really helped most people or the overall production of land and labor in the country. I tried to explain this in the fourth book of my Inquiry. It also hasn’t been great for the government’s income, especially when it comes to customs duties.

Because of this system, many types of goods can’t be imported at all. This has completely stopped some imports and made others much less common, forcing importers to resort to smuggling. For example, foreign wool can’t be imported at all, and the import of foreign silks and velvets has dropped a lot. This means the government loses out on customs revenue that could have come from these imports.

The high taxes on many foreign goods, meant to discourage people from buying them in Great Britain, often just lead to more smuggling. In fact, these heavy taxes have caused the customs revenue to be lower than it could have been if the taxes were more reasonable. Dr. Swift once said that with customs, two plus two doesn’t always equal four; sometimes it equals one. This is true for heavy taxes, which wouldn’t have been put in place if the mercantile system hadn’t taught us to use taxes to create monopolies instead of just raising money.

Sometimes, the government gives rewards for exporting local products and refunds for re-exporting foreign goods. This has led to a lot of cheating and a type of smuggling that hurts public revenue more than anything else. To get these rewards or refunds, goods are often shipped out to sea and then secretly brought back to another part of the country. The loss of customs revenue because of these rewards and refunds, many of which are obtained through fraud, is huge.

In the year ending January 5, 1755, the total customs revenue was £5,068,000. The rewards paid from this revenue, even without any bounty on corn that year, were £167,806. The refunds paid on various goods were £2,156,800. Together, the rewards and refunds added up to £2,324,600. Because of these deductions, the customs revenue ended up being only £2,743,400. After taking out £287,900 for management costs, the actual revenue for that year was £2,455,500.