Adam Smith

After the gold coins were changed, the market price for standard gold bars usually doesn’t go over £3:17:7 for each ounce. Before the coins were changed, the market price was often higher than the mint price. But now, the market price is usually lower than the mint price. This market price is the same whether you pay with gold or silver coins. So, the recent changes to the gold coins have made both gold and silver coins worth more compared to gold bars. It might have also made them worth more compared to other things, but since many factors affect the prices of other items, the increase in value of gold or silver coins might not be as clear.

In the English mint, one pound of standard silver bars is turned into sixty-two shillings, which is the same as one pound of standard silver. So, five shillings and two pence for each ounce is called the mint price of silver in England. This is what the mint gives back for standard silver bars. Before the gold coins were changed, the market price for standard silver bars varied, sometimes being five shillings and four pence, five shillings and five pence, five shillings and six pence, five shillings and seven pence, and often five shillings and eight pence for each ounce. The price of five shillings and seven pence was the most common. Since the gold coins were changed, the market price for standard silver bars has dropped to five shillings and three pence, five shillings and four pence, and five shillings and five pence for each ounce, and it rarely goes higher than that. Even though the market price of silver bars has dropped a lot since the gold coins were changed, it hasn’t dropped below the mint price.

When it comes to the value of different metals in English coins, copper is valued much higher than it should be, while silver is valued a bit lower. In Europe, one ounce of fine gold is traded for about fourteen ounces of fine silver in French and Dutch coins. In English coins, it trades for about fifteen ounces, which is more silver than it should be according to what’s common in Europe. But just like the price of copper bars isn’t affected by the high price of copper in English coins, the price of silver bars isn’t lowered by the low value of silver in English coins. Silver bars still keep their proper value compared to gold, just like copper bars keep their proper value compared to silver.

When the silver coins were changed during William III's reign, the price of silver bars still stayed a bit higher than the mint price. Mr. Locke thought this high price was because of the permission given to...