The Wealth of Nations talks about how countries trade and use money. 

When a country sells goods to other countries, most of the money it gets is used to buy more goods from abroad. Even if a country can’t get gold or silver in return for what it sells, it won’t be completely ruined. Sure, it might face some problems and have to find other ways to get by without money, but the amount of stuff it produces each year would stay about the same. This is because the same resources would still be used to make things.

In the long run, goods are more important for getting money than money is for getting goods. Goods can be used for many things, but money is mainly just for buying stuff. So, money is always chasing after goods, while goods don’t always chase after money. When someone buys something, they usually want to use it, not just sell it again. But when someone sells something, they plan to buy something else. One person might have completed their task, but the seller can only do half of theirs.

People want money not just for itself but for what they can buy with it. Things we can use up, like food, don’t last long, while gold and silver can last a really long time. If countries didn’t keep sending gold and silver away, they could save it up for a long time, which would make the country richer. 

Some people think it’s bad for a country to trade long-lasting things like gold and silver for things that don’t last, like food. But we don’t think it’s bad when England trades its tools for France’s wine. Tools last a long time too, and if England didn’t keep sending them away, it could save them up as well. However, there’s only so much need for pots and pans in a country. It wouldn’t make sense to have more than needed for cooking the food people usually eat. If more food is made, then more pots and pans might be needed, and people would use some of that extra food to buy them or to pay more workers to make them.

The same goes for gold and silver; there’s only so much need for them in a country. Their main use is to help trade goods and to be used as money.