The Wealth of Nations

People are willing to pay a lot for certain things, even if they aren’t as beautiful or useful as other items that are easier to find. The reasons for this high price are utility, beauty, and scarcity. These qualities made metals valuable before they were even used as money. Once they started being used as coins, the demand for them went up, which helped keep their value high.

The demand for precious stones comes mainly from how beautiful they are. They don’t really have any use other than being pretty, and their beauty is even more special because they are rare and hard to find. Most of the high price of these stones comes from wages and profits, while rent usually plays a small role, if any. Only the richest mines can give a decent rent. When a jeweler named Tavernier visited diamond mines in India, he learned that the king had closed all the mines except for the ones that produced the biggest and best stones. The others weren’t worth working on.

The prices of precious metals and stones are set based on the best mines in the world. The rent a mine can give to its owner depends not on how much it produces in total, but on how it compares to other mines of the same type. If new mines were found that were much better than the ones in Potosi, the value of silver could drop so much that even the Potosi mines wouldn’t be worth it anymore. Before the Spanish found the West Indies, the best mines in Europe might have made as much money for their owners as the richest mines in Peru do now. Even if there was less silver, it could still trade for the same amount of other goods, and the owner could still get the same amount of work or products.

The value of what these mines produced and the rent they provided could have been the same for both the public and the owners. However, even the richest mines of precious metals or stones don’t really add much to the world’s wealth. If something’s value mainly comes from being rare, it doesn’t help the economy much.