The Wealth of Nations

Back in the day, there was a rule that said the price of wheat shouldn’t go higher than ten pence for a bushel. This meant that workers could choose to get either wheat or money for their pay. Ten pence was considered a fair price for wheat during the 25th year of King Edward III. They even had to make a law to make sure workers accepted this price instead of their usual food supplies. Ten pence was seen as a reasonable price ten years earlier too. 

In the 16th year of King Edward III, ten pence was about half an ounce of silver, which is similar to what we now call half a crown. Four ounces of silver back then was worth six shillings and eight pence, which is close to twenty shillings today. So, a fair price for eight bushels of wheat would have been around that amount. This law gives us a better idea of what was considered a normal price for grain back then, compared to prices from certain years that were really high or low, which makes it hard to know what the usual price was.

Also, there are other reasons to think that around the early 1300s, the average price for wheat was at least four ounces of silver for a quarter, and other grains were priced similarly. In 1309, a guy named Ralph de Born, who was the prior of St Augustine’s in Canterbury, threw a big feast. A guy named William Thorn wrote down what they ate and how much it cost. They used fifty-three quarters of wheat, which cost nineteen pounds, or seven shillings and two pence per quarter. That’s about twenty-one shillings and six pence in today’s money. They also used fifty-eight quarters of malt for seventeen pounds ten shillings, which is about eighteen shillings now. Lastly, they had twenty quarters of oats for four pounds, or four shillings each, which is about twelve shillings today. 

The prices for malt and oats seem higher than what they usually were compared to wheat. These prices were not noted because they were unusually high or low; they were just mentioned because they were the actual costs for a big feast that was famous for being fancy. In 1262, during the 51st year of King Henry III, they brought back an old law about the prices of bread and ale, which the king said had been created by his ancestors.