The Wealth of Nations

Banks figured out a new way to give out loans by creating something called cash accounts. This means they give people credit, like a loan, up to a certain amount (like two or three thousand pounds). To get this credit, a person needs to find two trustworthy people who own land to back them up. This way, if the bank gives them money, they promise to pay it back whenever the bank asks, plus some interest. Banks all over the world usually offer this kind of credit. However, the way Scottish banks let people pay back their loans is special to them and has helped their businesses grow a lot, which is good for the country.

If someone has a cash account with one of these banks and borrows a thousand pounds, they can pay it back slowly, like twenty or thirty pounds at a time. The bank lowers the interest on the total amount based on when they receive each small payment until the whole loan is paid off. Because of this, many business people find it useful to have cash accounts with these banks. They also help promote the banks by accepting their notes for payments and encouraging others to do the same. When customers ask for money, banks usually give it to them in their own promissory notes. 

Merchants use these notes to pay manufacturers for goods, manufacturers pay farmers for materials and food, farmers pay landlords for rent, and landlords pay merchants for supplies. Then, merchants return the notes to the banks to settle their accounts or pay back what they borrowed. This is how most money transactions happen in the country, which is why these banks do so much business.

Thanks to cash accounts, merchants can run bigger businesses than they would normally be able to. For example, if there are two merchants, one in London and the other in Edinburgh, and they both invest the same amount of money in their businesses, the Edinburgh merchant can handle a larger operation and hire more people than the London merchant. This is because the London merchant has to keep a lot of money on hand, either with himself or in the bank, without earning any interest, just to pay for the goods he buys on credit.