As cattle are one of the first things people farm, venison (which is deer meat) is probably one of the last things that people think about when it comes to farming. Even though the price of venison in Great Britain seems really high, it doesn’t even cover the costs of keeping a deer park, which anyone who has raised deer knows. If it were worth it, raising deer would be as common as raising small birds, like turds, was for the ancient Romans. They said it was a good way to make money. In some parts of France, fattening ortolans (a type of bird) that come to the country skinny is also said to be profitable.

If venison stays popular and people in Great Britain keep getting richer, its price might go up even more. There’s a big gap between when the price of important things like cattle goes up and when the price of fancy things like venison goes up. During this time, many other products slowly reach their highest prices, some faster than others based on different situations.

On every farm, leftover food from the barn and stable can feed some chickens. Since they eat what would otherwise go to waste, they don’t cost the farmer much, so he can sell them for a low price. Most of the money he makes from selling them is profit, and the price can’t be so low that it stops him from raising them. In poorly farmed areas with fewer people, these chickens can often meet all the demand. Because of this, they can be as cheap as meat from the butcher. However, the total number of chickens raised this way is always much less than the amount of meat produced. When people get richer, they tend to prefer rare things over common ones, even if they are almost equally good.

As wealth and luxury grow because of better farming, the price of chickens gradually goes up above the price of butcher meat. Eventually, it gets so high that it becomes worth it for farmers to grow land just to raise chickens. Once it reaches this point, it can’t go much higher. If it did, more land would be used for this purpose. In some areas of France, raising chickens is seen as a really important part of farming, and it’s profitable enough that farmers grow a lot of corn and buckwheat just for them. A typical farmer there might have around four hundred chickens in their yard.