From the end of the second Carthaginian war until the fall of the Roman Republic, Rome had a strong army that was always ready to fight. The Macedonian army tried to fight back but lost after two big wars and three major battles. They probably would have had an even tougher time if their last king hadn’t been such a coward. 

Other armies from places like Greece, Syria, and Egypt didn’t put up much of a fight against Rome’s strong army. However, some tribes that weren’t as civilized fought back better. The Scythians and Tartars, who lived north of the Black and Caspian Seas, were some of the toughest opponents the Romans faced after the second Carthaginian war. The Parthians and Germans also had strong armies and sometimes even beat the Romans in battles. Overall, when the Roman armies were led well, they were usually much stronger. The Romans didn’t try to conquer Parthia or Germany completely because they probably thought those places weren’t worth adding to their already huge empire.

The Parthians were likely descendants of the Scythians or Tartars and kept many of their old customs. The ancient Germans were similar; they were nomadic shepherds who fought under the same leaders they followed in peaceful times. Their army was much like the Scythians and Tartars, from whom they probably came.

Several things caused the Roman army to become less disciplined. One reason was their strict rules, which might have been too harsh. When they were at their peak and didn’t see any strong enemies, they stopped wearing heavy armor because it was too heavy, and they skipped tough training because it seemed pointless. 

During the Roman Empire, the standing armies, especially those protecting the German and Pannonian borders, became a threat to their leaders. Sometimes, these armies would even support their own generals against the emperors. To make them less powerful, some historians say that Diocletian, while others say Constantine, moved the soldiers away from the borders where they used to camp in large groups. Instead, they spread them out into smaller groups in different towns, where they mostly stayed unless they needed to fight off an invasion. Small groups of soldiers were placed in towns where people traded and worked.