Adam Smith

People often think he’s silly, and his actions can hurt him just as much as they hurt regular folks. So, he has to stick to a set of morals that everyday people respect the most. By living this way, he earns their respect and friendship, even if his own interests might lead him to act differently. 

Regular people see him kindly, like someone who is a bit like them but should be doing better. Their kindness makes him want to be kind back. He tries to teach them and help them out. He doesn’t look down on their beliefs, even if they seem a bit silly, and he doesn’t act all high and mighty like some wealthy church leaders do. Because of this, the Presbyterian ministers have more influence over regular folks than ministers from other churches.

In places where Presbyterians are common, you often see regular people joining the established church without any pressure. In places where church jobs don’t pay much, a university position is usually better than a church job. Universities can choose their members from all the church leaders, who are usually the most educated people in the country. 

On the other hand, in places where church jobs are well-paying, the church tends to get most of the best educated people from the universities. These people often find someone who helps them get a church job, which makes that person look good. In the first situation, universities are likely to have the best scholars in the country. In the second, there are usually fewer outstanding scholars, and the few that are there are often the youngest, who might leave before they gain enough experience to help out.

Mr. de Voltaire pointed out that Father Porée, a Jesuit who wasn’t very famous, was the only professor in France whose work was worth reading. It’s strange that in a country known for great thinkers, hardly any of them were professors at a university. The well-known Cassendi started as a professor at the university of Aix. But when he showed signs of his talent, he was told that joining the church would give him a more comfortable life and a better chance to study, so he did just that.