In places where we didn’t have much control, people could use their own ships to sell their goods to different parts of Europe. At first, they could go anywhere, but later they were limited to areas south of Cape Finisterre. Because of this, it’s unlikely that this control was taken seriously. They probably found ways to bring back stuff from the places they could sell to.

However, they had a hard time bringing in European wines from where they were made. They couldn’t easily get them from Great Britain because there were a lot of heavy taxes, and some of those taxes weren’t refunded when the wine was exported. Madeira wine, which wasn’t European, could be brought directly into America and the West Indies. These places had free trade with Madeira for their goods. This might be why people in our colonies started liking Madeira wine before the war that began in 1755. When our officers returned to Britain, they brought this taste back, even though Madeira wine wasn’t very popular there before.

After the war ended in 1763, a law was passed that allowed most of the taxes on wines, except for French wines, to be refunded when they were sent to the colonies. This was because people didn’t want to support French wines for national reasons. The time between this law and the rebellion of our North American colonies was probably too short for any big changes in their habits.

The same law that helped the colonies with wine taxes didn’t help them as much with other goods. When sending most goods to other countries, only half of the old tax was refunded. But this law said that no tax would be refunded for goods from Europe or the East Indies sent to the colonies, except for wines, white cottons, and muslins.

Originally, these tax refunds were meant to encourage shipping trade, which was thought to help bring money into the country since foreign customers often paid for shipping. Even though encouraging shipping trade might not be the best idea, the tax refunds themselves seem reasonable. They can’t force more money into this trade than what would have come in naturally.