If the average price of things in our country goes down, it would also lower the price of work, but that wouldn’t change how much people actually earn. The value of money depends on how much stuff you can buy with it. But the value of the stuff you need to live doesn’t depend on how much money you have. 

If the price of work goes down, the prices of everything made at home would also drop, which would help those products sell better in other countries. Some products could become even cheaper if we could bring in raw materials without extra taxes. For example, if we could get raw silk from China and India without paying taxes, silk makers in England could sell their products for less than those in France and Italy. 

We wouldn’t need to stop importing foreign silks and fancy fabrics because our own products would be cheaper. This would help our workers not only keep their jobs but also compete better in other countries. Even the trade of taxed goods would be better than it is now. If those goods were sent out of the public warehouse for export without taxes, the trade would be totally free. 

The trade of all kinds of goods would benefit from this system. If those goods were sold for use at home, the importer wouldn’t have to pay the tax until they sold the goods, which means they could sell them for less than if they had to pay the tax right away. With the same taxes, even the trade of taxed goods could be done more easily than it is now. 

Sir Robert Walpole once tried to create a similar system for wine and tobacco. Although his plan only included those two items, many thought it was just the start of a bigger idea. However, there was a lot of noise and unfair criticism from people who didn’t like it, especially those involved in smuggling, so he decided to drop the plan. Since then, no one else has dared to bring it back up because they were scared of the same backlash. 

Taxes on fancy foreign goods that people buy at home mostly hit those who are doing okay financially, not just the poor. This includes taxes on things like foreign wines, coffee, chocolate, tea, and sugar.