The Wealth of Nations

To fix the unfairness from the old tax system, the way taxes are applied is mostly up to the person in charge, which means it can be pretty random.

Taxes on what farmers grow are really just taxes on the rent they pay. Even though farmers might pay these taxes at first, in the end, it's the landlords who actually pay them. When farmers have to give a part of what they grow as tax, they try to figure out how much that will be over the years. Because of this, they usually ask for a lower rent from the landlord. Every farmer knows they need to think about how much the church tax, which is a kind of land tax, will be each year.

These land taxes, like the church tax, might seem fair, but they are actually very unfair. Different types of land produce different amounts, which makes the tax impact unequal. On really rich land, the farmer might get so much from their crops that half of it is enough to cover their costs and make a profit. The other half could be paid as rent if there was no church tax. But if the farmer has to give away a tenth of their crops as tax, they will need to pay less rent, or they won't make back what they spent. So, instead of paying half of the crops as rent, they might only pay four-tenths.

On poorer land, the situation is different. Sometimes, the crops are so small and the costs are so high that farmers need to keep four-fifths of what they grow just to break even. Even without a church tax, the landlord could only get one-fifth of the crops as rent. But if the farmer pays a tenth of their crops as tax, they will also need to lower the rent by the same amount, bringing it down to just one-tenth of the total crops.

For rich lands, the church tax might only be about one-fifth of the crops, which is like four shillings for every pound. But for poorer lands, it could be as high as half, or ten shillings for every pound. The church tax can be very unfair and also makes it harder for farmers to improve their land and grow more.