The Wealth of Nations

A country’s wealth can be affected by how close or far its different areas are from the sea, how many lakes and rivers it has, and how rich or poor those bodies of water are in terms of natural resources. As more people live in a country and the amount of food and goods produced each year increases, there are more people wanting to buy fish. These buyers also have more stuff they can trade for fish. 

However, it’s usually hard to meet the demand of a large market without using more workers than what was needed for a smaller market. For example, if a market that used to need 1,000 tons of fish now needs 10,000 tons, it’s likely that you’ll need more than ten times the workers to supply that demand. Fish might have to be caught from farther away, bigger boats will be needed, and more expensive tools will have to be used. Because of this, the price of fish usually goes up as things improve. This has happened in many countries.

Even though the success of catching fish on any given day can be unpredictable, over a year or several years, it’s likely that enough fish will be brought to market, depending on the country’s location. This is more about where the country is than how wealthy or industrious it is. Because of this, different countries can have similar fish supplies at different times of growth, and the same country can have different supplies at the same time. This uncertainty is what I’m talking about.

When it comes to getting minerals and metals from the earth, especially valuable ones, human effort seems to have no limits, but it’s also very uncertain. The amount of precious metals in a country isn’t just based on whether it has good mines. Sometimes, these metals are found in places that don’t have any mines at all. The amount of precious metals in a country seems to depend on two main things: how much it can buy and the state of its industry, which is based on how much food and goods it can produce each year. This determines how many workers and resources it can use to find or buy extras like gold and silver, whether from its own mines or from elsewhere.