Many private founders have set up pensions, scholarships, and other financial help to support people in certain jobs. This makes it easier for more people to enter those fields than they could have on their own. In most Christian countries, I think most church workers get their education paid for this way. Very few pay for their education completely by themselves. 

For those who do pay for their own education, it can be long, boring, and expensive, and they might not get a good job afterward. There are so many people trying to get church jobs that many are willing to accept lower pay than what their education should earn them. This means that the competition from those who have less money can lower the pay for those who have more.

It wouldn’t be right to compare a church worker like a curate or chaplain to someone in a regular job. But the pay for a curate or chaplain can be seen as similar to what a worker in a trade earns. They all get paid based on the agreements they make with their bosses.

Back in the 14th century, a curate or parish priest usually earned five merks, which is about the same as ten pounds today. At that time, a master mason made fourpence a day, which is like a shilling now, and a journeyman mason earned threepence a day, equal to ninepence today. So, the pay for those laborers was actually higher than what a curate made. If the master mason didn’t work for a third of the year, his earnings would still match those of a curate.

In the 12th year of Queen Anne's reign, a law was made because curates weren’t getting enough pay. It allowed bishops to set a salary for curates between twenty and fifty pounds a year. Nowadays, making forty pounds a year is considered good pay for a curate, but there are still many curates earning less than twenty pounds. In London, some shoemakers earn forty pounds a year, and most hardworking people there make more than twenty pounds. This amount is often what regular laborers earn in many rural areas. Whenever the law has tried to set pay for workers, it usually ends up lowering their wages instead of raising them.