The Wealth of Nations doesn’t really measure how valuable gold is. If more people started keeping track of money this way, gold would be seen as the main metal for measuring value instead of silver.

Basically, when the value of different metals in coins is set, the value of the most valuable metal decides the worth of all the coins. For example, twelve copper pennies have half a pound of copper, which isn’t great quality and is usually worth less than seven pence in silver before it’s made into coins. But since those twelve pennies are supposed to be worth a shilling, people treat them as if they are worth a shilling, and you can always get a shilling for them.

Before the recent changes to gold coins in Great Britain, the gold coins that were used in London were generally closer to their proper weight than most silver coins. However, twenty-one worn-out shillings were considered equal to a guinea, which might also be worn but not as much. The recent changes have made gold coins closer to their proper weight than ever, and the rule that you can only receive gold by weight at public offices will help keep it that way. Meanwhile, the silver coins are still in the same worn-out condition as before the gold coins were fixed. In the market, though, twenty-one shillings of this worn silver are still seen as worth one guinea of the good gold coins.

Fixing the gold coins has clearly increased the value of the silver coins that can be traded for them. 

In the English mint, one pound of gold is turned into forty-four and a half guineas, which, at twenty-one shillings per guinea, equals forty-six pounds fourteen shillings and sixpence. So, one ounce of this gold coin is worth £3:17:10½ in silver. In England, there are no fees for making coins, so if you bring a pound or an ounce of standard gold to the mint, you get back the same amount in gold coins without losing any value. Therefore, £3:17:10½ per ounce is known as the mint price of gold in England, or how much gold coin you get in return for standard gold.

Before the gold coins were fixed, the market price for standard gold was often over £3:18s, sometimes even £3:19s, and often around £4 per ounce. This amount was likely in worn and degraded gold coins, which usually didn’t contain more than an ounce of standard gold. Since the changes were made,