The Wealth of Nations

This colony could have done really well if it had support from Sweden. But since Sweden ignored it, the Dutch colony of New York took it over. Later, in 1674, the English took control of New York.

The small islands of St. Thomas and Santa Cruz are the only places in the new world that the Danes ever owned. These little settlements were run by a special company that had the only rights to buy the extra goods from the colonies and sell them what they needed from other countries. This gave the company a lot of power, which made it easy for them to take advantage of the colonies. A company of merchants running a country is probably the worst kind of government. Still, this company couldn’t completely stop the growth of these colonies, even though it made their progress slow. The last king of Denmark shut down this company, and since then, the colonies have done really well.

The Dutch colonies in the West and East Indies were also run by a special company at first. Because of this, their growth was slow compared to other new colonies, even though they were doing better than many older countries. Surinam is a decent colony, but it’s still not as good as most sugar colonies owned by other European countries. The colony of Nova Belgia, which is now New York and New Jersey, might have also done well if it had stayed under Dutch control. Having a lot of good, cheap land is a big reason for success, and even a bad government can’t stop that completely. Plus, being far away from the mother country allowed colonists to sneak around the company’s rules. 

Right now, the company lets all Dutch ships trade with Surinam if they pay a small fee. The company still keeps control over the direct trade from Africa to America, which is mostly about the slave trade. This change in the company’s rules is likely why Surinam is doing better now. Curacao and Eustatia, the main Dutch islands, are free ports, which means ships from all countries can trade there. This openness has helped those two islands thrive, even though they aren’t as good as other colonies that only allow one nation to trade.