Adam Smith talks about how much people earn in different jobs. In every trade, the lowest pay is usually what most workers make. Even if some workers earn a lot, if their pay is more than what makes the job worth it, more people will try to get that job, which will lower the pay.

The amount of work available doesn’t really change how much money people can make in a specific job. Whether someone is always working or not depends more on the person running the business than the job itself.

Next, the pay for workers changes based on how much trust is placed in them. For example, goldsmiths and jewelers earn more than many other workers because they handle valuable materials. We trust doctors with our health and lawyers with our money and reputation. We wouldn’t trust someone who isn’t skilled or respected with such important things. Because of this trust, those workers need to earn enough to have a good standing in society. Also, they spend a lot of time and money on their education, which makes their work even more expensive.

When someone uses their own money to run a business, there’s no trust involved. The credit they get from others depends on how people view their wealth and character, not on the type of business they have. So, the different profits in various jobs don’t come from how much trust people have in the workers.

Finally, pay in different jobs also changes based on how likely someone is to succeed in that job. Some jobs are almost guaranteed to lead to success, while others are much less certain. For example, if you train your son to be a shoemaker, he will probably learn to make shoes. But if you send him to study law, there’s a good chance he won’t be able to make a living from it. In a fair lottery, those who win should get back what the losers lost. In a job where many people fail and only a few succeed, the successful ones should earn enough to cover what the others lost. A lawyer who starts making money in their late thirties should be paid not just for their own work but also to make up for all the time they spent struggling.