The Wealth of Nations

Sometimes, the costs of fancy events can be really high. These events are like taxes that rich people in the colonies have to pay, and they make everyone want to show off and spend a lot on other things too. These aren’t just annoying one-time taxes; they also create ongoing taxes that are even worse, like the expensive habits of living lavishly. In the colonies of Spain, Portugal, and others, the church has a lot of power and it can be really tough on people. They have to pay tithes, which are like taxes for the church, and in Spain and Portugal, these are collected very strictly. Plus, there are many begging friars who are allowed to ask for money because of their religious role, which puts extra pressure on poor people. They are taught that it’s their duty to give and that refusing to help is a big sin. On top of all this, the church owns a lot of land.

When it comes to selling extra stuff that they don’t use, the English colonies have it better than those of other European countries. Each European country tries to control the trade of its colonies, which means they don’t let foreign ships trade with them or bring in goods from other countries. But the way they do this varies a lot.

Some countries let a single company control all trade with their colonies. This means colonists have to buy everything they need from that company and sell all their extra stuff to them. The company wants to sell their goods for a high price and buy the colonists' goods for as low a price as possible. They also don’t want to buy too much from the colonies, even at low prices, because they want to sell it for a high price in Europe. This makes the value of what the colonies produce go down, and it can even stop the colonies from growing naturally. Having a single company control everything is one of the worst ways to hold back a new colony. This has been the approach in Holland, although their company has eased up on its control in recent years. Denmark used to do this too, until the last king's reign. France has done it sometimes, and recently, since 1755, they have stopped this practice because it didn’t make sense anymore.