Adam Smith talks about how hard it is for a poor person to settle in a new place. If someone moves into a parish secretly, the parish can force them to leave. But if someone isn’t sure if they can be kicked out, they can give notice to make the parish decide. They can either let them stay for 40 days or remove them to see if they have the right to stay.

This law made it really tough for a poor person to gain a new home just by living there for 40 days. To make sure people could still settle in a new place, the law created four other ways to gain a settlement without having to give notice. The first way is by paying taxes to the parish. The second is by being elected to a parish job and working there for a year. The third is by being an apprentice in the parish. The fourth is by being hired for a year and sticking with that job the whole time.

But it’s hard for someone to gain a settlement through the first two ways because the whole parish has to agree, and they usually don’t want to take in someone new who only has their labor to offer. Also, married men can’t easily gain a settlement through the last two ways. Apprentices are usually single, and the law says married workers can’t gain a settlement just by being hired for a year.

The new rules about getting a settlement through work have changed how people used to hire for a year. In the past, if no specific time was agreed upon, it was assumed that workers were hired for a year. But now, employers often don’t want to give workers a settlement this way, and workers might not want to be hired like that either. If they do, they risk losing their original home where their family lives.

It’s clear that independent workers, whether they are laborers or craftsmen, have a tough time getting a new settlement through apprenticeship or work. If they move to a new parish, they can be kicked out at any time, no matter how hard they work, unless they can rent a place for ten pounds a year, which is really hard for someone who only has their labor to live on. They also need to provide security that two justices of the peace think is good enough.