Adam Smith talks about how some people used to own slaves and how these slaves worked on their land. The owners provided everything needed for farming, like seeds and tools, and the slaves only got enough food to survive. So, in this case, the owner was the one really working the land, even if it was through their slaves. 

This kind of slavery still exists in places like Russia, Poland, and parts of Germany, but it has mostly disappeared in western Europe. 

However, big landowners usually don’t make big improvements, especially when they rely on slaves to do the work. History shows that work done by slaves might seem cheap because the owner only has to feed them, but in reality, it ends up costing more. Slaves don’t have any personal interest in their work since they can’t own anything. They only want to eat as much as they can and work as little as possible. If they need to be pushed to work harder, it usually has to be through force. 

In ancient Italy, farming got worse when slaves took over, and this was noted by writers like Pliny and Columella. In ancient Greece, things weren’t much better either. Aristotle talked about how a perfect society would need a lot of land to support many people, including warriors and their families. 

People like to be in charge, and they don’t like having to convince others to do things. So, when the law allows it, and the job can handle it, many prefer using slaves instead of free workers. Growing sugar and tobacco can afford to use slaves, but growing corn doesn’t seem to work that way anymore. 

In the English colonies where corn is the main crop, most of the work is done by free people. The Quakers in Pennsylvania decided to free all their slaves, which shows that they probably didn’t have many slaves to begin with. If they did, they wouldn’t have made that decision. 

In our sugar colonies, almost all the work is done by slaves, and a lot of the work in tobacco colonies is done the same way. The profits from sugar plantations in the West Indies are usually much higher than from any other type of farming in Europe or America.