The Wealth of Nations

Three-fourths of pure gold and one-fourth of other metals make up standard gold. This type of gold is worth about six hundred seventy-one livres and ten deniers. In France, this gold is turned into thirty louis d’ors, each worth twenty-four livres, which adds up to seven hundred twenty livres. So, the process of making coins actually increases the value of a mark of standard gold by about forty-eight livres and two deniers.

Seignorage can take away or reduce the profit you get from melting down new coins. This profit comes from the difference between how much gold is supposed to be in the currency and how much is actually there. If this difference is less than the seignorage, you’ll lose money instead of making it. If it’s equal to the seignorage, you won’t gain or lose anything. If it’s more than the seignorage, you’ll make some profit, but it won’t be as much as if there was no seignorage. For example, before the recent changes to gold coins, if there was a five percent seignorage, you would lose three percent when melting down the coins. With a two percent seignorage, you wouldn’t gain or lose anything. With a one percent seignorage, you’d make a one percent profit instead of two percent. 

When money is counted and not weighed, seignorage helps stop people from melting down coins or taking them out of the country. The best coins are usually the ones that get melted down or exported because that’s where the biggest profits are.

The law that encouraged making coins without extra taxes started during Charles II's reign for a short time and was later extended until 1769, when it became permanent. The Bank of England often needs to take gold to the mint to get more money, and they probably thought it was better for the government to pay for this than for them. The government likely made this law permanent to please the bank. However, if weighing gold becomes less common, which might happen because it’s not very convenient, and if England’s gold coins start being counted again like they were before the recent changes, the bank might realize they made a mistake about what’s best for them. Before the recent changes, England’s gold currency was two percent lighter than it should have been, and there was no seignorage.