The price of corn in Scotland is usually cheaper than in England when you look at the amount you get. But when you think about the quality, Scottish corn can be a bit more expensive. Scotland often gets a lot of corn from England, and things usually cost more in the place they are sold than where they come from. So, English corn is more expensive in Scotland than in England. However, when you compare the quality and how much flour or meal you can make from it, English corn doesn’t sell for more than Scottish corn that’s available in stores.

The difference in how much people get paid for work in China compared to Europe is even bigger than the difference in living costs. Workers in Europe generally earn more because many parts of Europe are getting better, while China seems to be stuck. In Scotland, people earn less than in England because the pay for work is lower there. Scotland is getting richer but at a slower pace than England. A lot of people leave Scotland for better opportunities, while not many leave England. This shows that there are different needs for workers in both places. The pay for work in different countries depends on whether they are getting better, staying the same, or getting worse, not just on how rich or poor they are.

Gold and silver are worth more in rich countries and less in poor ones. In very poor places, like among some tribes, they don’t have much value at all.

In big cities, corn is always more expensive than in the countryside. This happens not because silver is cheaper, but because corn is more expensive. It doesn’t take less work to bring silver to a city than to a rural area, but it takes a lot more work to bring corn there.

In wealthy and busy places like Holland and Genoa, corn is also expensive for the same reason it is in big cities. They don’t grow enough corn to feed everyone. They are good at making things and have a lot of tools and ships to help with work and trade, but they don’t have enough corn. Since they have to get it from far away, the price goes up to cover the cost of transporting it. It doesn’t take less work to bring silver to Amsterdam than to Dantzic, but it costs a lot more to bring corn.