The Wealth of Nations

In both France and England, people earn more money in France. Because of this, many British people prefer to invest their money in France, even though trade isn’t as respected there. However, workers in France get paid less than in England. If you travel from Scotland to England, you can easily see the differences in how regular people dress and look, which shows their different lifestyles. The difference is even bigger when you come back from France. 

France is richer than Scotland, but it doesn’t seem to be improving as quickly. Many people think France is getting worse, which I believe is not true. No one can say Scotland is getting worse if they compare it to how it was twenty or thirty years ago. 

On the other hand, Holland is richer than England when you look at its size and population. Their government can borrow money at a low interest rate of two percent, and private people with good credit can borrow at three percent. Workers in Holland are said to earn more than those in England, and the Dutch are known to make smaller profits than anyone else in Europe. Some people say that trade in Holland is declining, and while some parts might be, it doesn’t mean that trade as a whole is failing. When profits go down, merchants often complain about trade slowing down, but that drop in profit can actually happen when trade is doing well or when more money is being invested than before. 

During the recent war, the Dutch took over the shipping trade from France and still hold a big part of it. They own a lot of money in French and English investments, about forty million, though that number might be exaggerated. They also lend a lot of money to people in places where interest rates are higher than in Holland. This shows that they have more money than they can use profitably in their own businesses, but it doesn’t mean those businesses are failing. Just like a person can have more money than they can use in their trade while that trade is still growing, a whole country can have the same situation. 

In our North American and West Indian colonies, not only are workers paid more, but the interest on money and profits are also higher than in England. In different colonies, both the legal and market interest rates range from six to...