The Wealth of Nations

When someone trades with their own stuff, both sides can get better. But one side will always improve slower than the other because a lot of the profits go to paying off loans. Similarly, a farmer's land will improve slower than a landowner's land because a big part of what the farmer grows goes to rent. If the farmer owned the land, they could use that money to make the land better.

Also, being a farmer is usually seen as a lower status than being a landowner. In many parts of Europe, farmers are looked down upon compared to better tradespeople and even more than big merchants and factory owners. So, it’s rare for someone with a lot of money to leave a better job to become a farmer. Right now in Europe, not many people are likely to switch from other jobs to farming. In Great Britain, there are more people doing this than in other countries, but even there, the wealth that some farmers have usually comes from farming itself, which is a slow way to make money.

After small landowners, wealthy farmers are the main ones who improve land in every country. England probably has more of these farmers than any other European country. In places like Holland and Bern in Switzerland, farmers are said to be just as good as those in England.

In the past, Europe had rules that made it hard for both landowners and farmers to improve their land. For example, there were strict rules against selling grain outside the country without special permission. This was a common rule. There were also limits on selling grain and other farm products within the country, thanks to silly laws against certain types of sellers and the special rights of markets and fairs. 

It has been noted how the ban on exporting grain, along with some encouragement to bring in foreign grain, hurt farming in ancient Italy, which was the most fertile place in Europe and home to the biggest empire back then. It’s hard to imagine how much these rules would have discouraged farming in less fertile countries.