Adam Smith

The rules for how tenants had to work on their land weren't clear. They were based on what was usually done in the area. Because of this, tenants often faced a lot of annoying problems. In Scotland, when they got rid of all the unclear rules about land leases, life got a lot better for the farmers there.

The public services that farmers had to provide were just as confusing and unfair as the private ones. For example, farmers had to help build and fix the main roads, which is still a requirement in many places, but the pressure varies by country. Also, whenever the king's soldiers or officials traveled through the area, farmers had to give them horses, carts, and food at prices set by the government. Great Britain is the only country in Europe where this kind of forced service has been completely removed. It still exists in places like France and Germany.

The taxes that farmers had to pay were just as messy and unfair as the services. The old lords didn’t want to give money to the king, but they let him tax their tenants instead, not realizing how much that would hurt their own income later. The taille, a tax still in France, is an example of this. It’s a tax based on how much money a farmer is thought to make, which is decided by what they have on their farm. Because of this, farmers try to show they have as little as possible, which means they don’t invest much in their land. If a farmer starts to save up money, the taille makes it almost impossible for them to use that money to improve their farm. This tax also makes people look bad if they have to pay it, putting them below not just wealthy people but also regular townsfolk. Anyone who rents land has to deal with this tax too. Because of this, no wealthy person or even a regular person with money wants to be seen as lower than they are. So, this tax not only stops farmers from improving their land but also drives away other investments. The old taxes in England, like the tenths and fifteenths, were similar to the taille in how they affected farmers.

With all these problems, it’s hard to expect farmers to make any improvements. Even with the rights and protections that laws can offer, farmers will always struggle under tough conditions. A farmer is like a merchant who has to borrow money to trade, compared to one who has their own money to invest.