The Wealth of Nations talks about how explorers found different islands like the Madeiras, the Canaries, and the Cape of Good Hope. They really wanted to join in on the money-making trade that the Venetians had, and this last discovery gave them a chance to do that. In 1497, Vasco de Gama left Lisbon with four ships and, after sailing for eleven months, reached the coast of India. This was part of a long series of discoveries that had been happening for almost a hundred years without much break.

Before this, while people in Europe were waiting to see if the Portuguese would succeed, a pilot from Genoa had a bolder idea. He wanted to sail to the East Indies by going west instead. Back then, people in Europe didn’t know much about those countries. The few travelers who had been there made it sound really far away, maybe because they didn’t understand the distances or wanted to make their adventures sound more amazing. Columbus thought that if the east route was longer, then the west route would be shorter. He decided to take the west route, thinking it was both the quickest and safest way. He managed to convince Isabella of Castile that his idea could work. He set sail from Palos in August 1492, almost five years before Vasco de Gama left Portugal. After two to three months at sea, he first found some small islands in the Bahamas and then the larger island of St. Domingo.

However, the places Columbus found didn’t look anything like what he was hoping for. Instead of the wealth and busy cities of China and India, he saw St. Domingo and other parts of the new world that were just covered in forests and not farmed at all, with only a few tribes of poor, naked people living there. He didn’t really want to believe that these weren’t the same places described by Marco Polo, the first European to write about China and the East Indies. Even a small similarity, like the name of a mountain in St. Domingo called Cibao and a place mentioned by Marco Polo called Cipange, was enough for him to stick to his belief, even when the evidence showed otherwise. In his letters to Ferdinand and Isabella, he referred to these places as if they were the ones he was searching for.