It’s hard to see why it should be tougher for the maltster to get back eighteen shillings for his malt compared to how easy it is for the brewer to get back twenty-four, twenty-five, or even thirty shillings for his drinks. The maltster has to pay an extra six shillings, but the brewer has to pay a lot more tax on every quarter of malt he brews. It shouldn’t be any harder for the maltster to pay a smaller tax than it is for the brewer to pay a bigger one. 

The maltster doesn’t always have a lot of malt stored up, which usually sells faster than the beer and ale that the brewer keeps in his cellars. So, the maltster can often get his money back just as quickly as the brewer. If the maltster has to pay a higher tax, it could be fixed by giving him a few extra months to pay it back compared to what the brewer usually gets.

Nothing can lower the rent and profit from barley land unless it also lowers the demand for barley. But if the rules change to lower the tax on a quarter of malt brewed into beer and ale from twenty-four or twenty-five shillings to eighteen shillings, it would probably make the demand for barley go up, not down. The rent and profit from barley land should be about the same as other good farmland. If they were lower, some barley land would be used for something else, and if they were higher, more land would be used to grow barley. 

When the price of a crop is really high, a tax on it will lower the rent and profit from the land that grows it. For example, if there’s a tax on wine from vineyards that can’t keep up with demand, the rent and profit from those vineyards will drop. The price of the wine is already the highest it can be for what usually gets sold, so it can’t go higher without selling less, and selling less would cause even bigger losses because the land can’t be used for anything else that’s just as valuable. So, the tax would mainly hit the rent and profit from the vineyard. When new taxes on sugar are suggested, sugar planters often complain that these taxes hurt them the most.