The Wealth of Nations

Back in the day, slaves did a lot of the work, and regular citizens weren’t allowed to do many jobs. Even in places like Rome and Athens where there weren’t strict rules against it, most people couldn’t work in the trades that are now done by lower-class workers in towns. Those jobs were mostly done by slaves owned by rich people, and the rich got all the benefits from their work. This made it really hard for poor free people to find jobs because their work had to compete with that of the slaves.

Slaves usually didn’t come up with new ideas. Most of the important inventions and ways to make work easier were created by free people. If a slave suggested a new idea, their master might think they were just trying to be lazy and avoid work. Instead of getting rewarded, the slave could end up getting punished. Because of this, more work had to be done by slaves to produce the same amount of goods as free workers. This meant that farming done by slaves was usually more expensive than that done by free people.

For example, Mr. Montesquieu pointed out that Hungarian mines, even though they weren’t richer, were cheaper to work than Turkish mines nearby. The Turkish mines used slaves, while the Hungarian mines were worked by free people who used machines to make their jobs easier. From what we know about prices back in Greek and Roman times, it seems that fancy goods were super expensive. Silk, for instance, sold for its weight in gold because it was brought all the way from the East Indies, which made it costly to transport.

There are stories about how much a lady would pay for a piece of really nice linen, and it was also really high-priced. Linen was made in Europe or Egypt, so the high cost must have come from how much labor went into making it. This labor was expensive because the machines used were not very efficient. Fine woolen cloths were also pricey, though not as crazy expensive as silk, but still more than what we pay today. Some special cloths were dyed in a unique way, which added to their cost.