Adam Smith

The same payments and support were given to smaller fishing companies as to the big one. The big company quickly got enough people to join, and many different fishing groups were set up in various ports around the country. Even with all this support, almost all these companies, big and small, lost most or all of their money. Now, hardly any of them exist, and the white-herring fishery is mostly run by private individuals.

If a certain product is really important for the safety of society, it might not be smart to rely on other countries for it. If we can't make that product ourselves, it might be okay to tax other industries to help support it. For example, the rewards for exporting British-made sailcloth and gunpowder might be justified for this reason.

However, it’s usually not fair to tax everyone just to help a specific group of manufacturers. But when the economy is doing really well and the government has more money than it knows how to spend, giving extra support to certain businesses can seem normal, even if it’s a waste. In both public and private spending, having a lot of money can sometimes excuse foolish decisions. But it’s really strange to keep spending like that when times are tough for everyone.

What people call a bounty is sometimes just a refund, so it doesn't have the same problems as a real bounty. For example, the bounty on exported refined sugar can be seen as a refund for the taxes paid on the brown sugars used to make it. The bounty on exported silk is a refund for the taxes on the raw silk brought in. The bounty on exported gunpowder is a refund for the taxes on the materials imported to make it. In customs terms, refunds are only given on goods exported in the same form they were imported. If the goods have been changed in any way, they are called bounties.

Rewards given by the government to artists and manufacturers who are really good at what they do don’t have the same issues as bounties. By encouraging skill and creativity, these rewards help motivate workers in those jobs and aren’t large enough to make any one of them too dominant.