The Wealth of Nations

When people invest the same amount of money in a common business, they usually don’t pay more than what the risk is really worth. This means they’re paying the lowest price they think is fair to protect themselves. While some people have made a bit of money from insurance, very few have become super rich from it. This shows that making money from insurance isn’t much better than other regular businesses where people actually do get rich.

Even though insurance costs aren’t too high, a lot of people think the risk isn’t serious enough to bother paying for it. In fact, if you look at the whole country, about 19 out of 20 houses, or maybe even 99 out of 100, aren’t insured against fire. People worry more about risks at sea, so more ships are insured compared to those that aren’t. Still, many ships sail without insurance, even during tough times like war. Sometimes this isn’t a bad idea. If a big company or merchant has many ships, they can sort of protect each other. The money they save on insurance might cover any losses they face. But usually, not insuring ships, just like not insuring houses, is more about being careless and thinking the risk isn’t a big deal.

Young people often ignore risks when they’re choosing their careers. They’re not scared of bad luck and are more excited about good luck. This is clear when you see how eager regular people are to join the army or go to sea, compared to how much more educated people want to get into better jobs. It’s obvious what a soldier might lose, but young people still rush to enlist at the start of a new war. Even though they have little chance of getting promoted, they imagine all sorts of ways to gain honor and fame that usually don’t happen. These dreams are what they pay for with their lives. Soldiers earn less than regular workers, and their work is much harder.

Going to sea isn’t as risky as being in the army. A laborer’s son can often go to sea with his dad’s permission, but if he joins the army, he usually does it without any approval. People think there’s a chance he might earn something by going to sea, but no one believes he’ll make anything by being a soldier. A famous admiral doesn’t get as much public admiration as a famous general.