The Wealth of Nations

Over the last twenty or thirty years, the price of cloth has gone up a bit because the cost of Spanish wool has increased. However, the price of Yorkshire cloth, made from English wool, has actually dropped quite a bit compared to its quality. But quality is hard to judge, so I think this information is not completely reliable.

In the clothing industry, the way work is divided is pretty much the same now as it was a hundred years ago, and the machines used aren't very different either. There might have been some small improvements that helped lower prices a bit.

If we look back to the end of the 1400s, the price of cloth now seems much cheaper. Back then, work was less divided, and the machines were not as good as today’s. 

In 1487, a law was made that said if anyone sold a yard of the best scarlet cloth for more than sixteen shillings, they would have to pay a fine of forty shillings for each yard sold. Sixteen shillings back then was about the same as twenty-four shillings today, which was considered a fair price for the best cloth. This law suggests that the cloth was usually sold for even more. Nowadays, the highest price for cloth is around a guinea. 

Even if we assume the quality of the cloth is the same, and it’s likely that today’s cloth is better, the price of the best cloth has dropped a lot since the late 1400s. The real price has dropped even more. Back then, six shillings and eightpence was the average price for a quarter of wheat. So, sixteen shillings was the price for two quarters and over three bushels of wheat. If we value a quarter of wheat today at twenty-eight shillings, then the real price of a yard of fine cloth back then would be at least three pounds six shillings and sixpence today. The person buying it would have had to give up a lot of work and food that amount could buy now.

The drop in the real price of cheaper cloth has been significant, but not as much as for the finer cloth. In 1463, a law was made that said no farm worker or common laborer could...