The Wealth of Nations

The protection and support from the British crown had either been taken away or ignored. Because of this, the people who usually celebrated trade with Portugal started to say it wasn’t as great as everyone thought. They claimed that most of the gold brought into Britain each year wasn’t really for Britain, but for other European countries. The fruits and wines from Portugal that Britain imported almost balanced out the value of British goods sent there.

Now, let’s imagine that all this trade was really just for Britain, and it was worth even more than Mr. Barretti thinks. Even then, this trade wouldn’t be any better than other trades where we send out goods and get back the same value in things we can use. 

Only a tiny part of the gold coming in is actually kept as money or fancy items in Britain. The rest gets sent out and traded for goods we can use. But if we bought those goods directly with what we make in England, it would be better for us than first buying gold from Portugal and then using that gold to buy the goods. Trading directly for what we need is always smarter than taking the long way around. It takes less money to get the same amount of foreign goods that way.

If England had spent less time making goods for Portugal and more on making things for other markets where there’s a demand, it would have been better for the country. This way, England could get both the gold it needs and the goods it wants with less money than it does now. That would leave extra money to use for other things, helping to create more jobs and produce more goods each year.

Even if Britain couldn’t trade with Portugal at all, it wouldn’t have much trouble getting all the gold it needs for coins, fancy items, or trade. Gold is always available somewhere for those who can pay for it. Plus, the extra gold in Portugal would still be sent out, and even if Britain didn’t take it, other countries would be happy to buy it and sell it again, just like Britain does now.