Adam Smith

We can figure out from the last part of the law that the price of ale goes up or down based on every sixpence change in the price of barley. The wording is a bit messy, but the idea is clear. The people who made this law didn’t pay much attention, just like the people copying it didn’t do a great job either.

In an old law book from Scotland called the Regiam Majestatem, there’s a rule about how the price of bread is set based on different prices of wheat, ranging from tenpence to three shillings for a specific amount. Back when this rule was made, three shillings was about nine shillings in today’s money. A guy named Mr. Ruddiman thinks that three shillings was the highest price wheat ever reached back then, and that tenpence, a shilling, or maybe two shillings were the usual prices. But if you look at the old manuscript, it’s clear that these prices were just examples of how wheat and bread prices should relate to each other. The last part of the law says, “You should decide the other cases based on what’s written above, keeping in mind the price of corn.”

Also, they seemed to have been confused by how cheap wheat could be sold in really old times. They thought that since the lowest price was much lower back then, the usual price must have been lower too. But they could have noticed that in those ancient times, the highest price was actually much higher than anything seen in later years. For example, in 1270, a guy named Fleetwood recorded two prices for a quarter of wheat. One was four pounds sixteen shillings from back then, which is about fourteen pounds eight shillings today. The other was six pounds eight shillings, equal to nineteen pounds four shillings now. No prices from the late 1400s or early 1500s come close to these crazy amounts. 

The price of corn changes a lot, especially in chaotic times when trade and communication are messed up, making it hard for one area to help another that’s running low on food. During the messy times in England under the Plantagenets, who ruled from the mid-1100s to the late 1400s, one area could have plenty of food while another nearby might be struggling.