Adam Smith

The bank started lending more money to the public than it had in its own funds, which means it began to have extra money that wasn't being paid out to its shareholders. Since then, it has kept this extra money. In 1746, the bank lent out £11,686,800 to the public, while its total funds for shareholders reached £10,780,000. These amounts have stayed the same since then. According to a law from King George III, the bank agreed to pay the government £110,000 to renew its permission to operate, and this money didn’t change the other two amounts.

The bank's profits have changed based on how much interest it gets from the money it lends, as well as other factors. Over time, the interest rate has dropped from eight percent to three percent. Recently, the bank's profit has been around five and a half percent.

The Bank of England is as stable as the British government. It has to lose all the money it lent out before anyone else loses money. No other bank in England can be created by law or have more than six members. The bank does more than just regular banking; it plays a big role in the government. It handles most of the payments owed to the public and manages government bills. It also gives the government money for taxes that aren’t paid until years later. Sometimes, this means the bank has to print more money than it should. It also helps businesses by giving loans and has supported major companies in England and other countries like Hamburg and Holland. For example, in 1763, it reportedly lent about £1,600,000 in just one week, mostly in gold and silver. However, I can't guarantee the accuracy of that amount or the time frame. There have been times when the bank had to make small payments in coins.

The best way for banks to help the economy isn’t just by increasing the total money available, but by making more of that money useful and productive. When a business has to keep some money on hand for emergencies, that money isn’t being used to help the business grow, which is a waste.