Adam Smith

For a long time, Brazil was mostly ignored by the crown, but during that time, it became a strong colony. When Portugal was controlled by Spain, the Dutch attacked Brazil and took over seven out of the fourteen provinces. They thought they would soon take the other seven too, but then Portugal became independent again when the Braganza family took the throne. 

Since the Dutch were enemies of the Spaniards, they became friends with the Portuguese, who also didn’t like the Spaniards. They decided that the Dutch could keep the parts of Brazil they had taken, while the Portuguese would keep the parts they hadn’t conquered. However, the Dutch government started to treat the Portuguese colonists badly. Instead of just complaining, the colonists fought back. With some help from their home country, but not officially, they managed to drive the Dutch out of Brazil. 

The Dutch realized they couldn’t hold onto any part of Brazil, so they agreed to give it all back to Portugal. There are said to be over six hundred thousand people in this colony, including Portuguese, their descendants, creoles, mulattoes, and mixed-race people. This makes it the most populated colony in America with people of European descent. 

In the late 1400s and most of the 1500s, Spain and Portugal were the biggest naval powers on the ocean. Even though Venice traded all over Europe, its ships rarely went beyond the Mediterranean Sea. The Spaniards claimed all of America for themselves because they were the first to discover it. They couldn’t stop Portugal from settling in Brazil, but their reputation scared most other European countries from trying to settle anywhere else in America. The French tried to settle in Florida, but the Spaniards killed them all. 

However, Spain’s naval power started to decline after they lost their so-called invincible armada at the end of the 1500s. This made it easier for other European nations to settle in the New World. During the 1600s, the English, French, Dutch, Danes, and Swedes, who all had ports on the ocean, tried to establish settlements. The Swedes set up in New Jersey, and you can still find Swedish families living there today.