Adam Smith

You can trade things like four pounds of bread or three or four quarts of beer. Because of this, people often think about how much money something is worth instead of how much work or other stuff they could get for it.

Gold and silver, just like anything else, can change in value. Sometimes they are cheaper, and sometimes they are more expensive. How much work you can get for a certain amount of gold or silver depends on how easy or hard it is to find those metals. When the gold and silver mines in America were discovered in the 1500s, their value in Europe dropped to about a third of what it used to be. It took less effort to get those metals from the mines, so when they got to the market, they could buy less work. This big change in value is one of many that history talks about.

Just like how a foot or a handful can change in size, something that changes in value can't be a good way to measure the value of other things. However, the amount of work someone does is always the same value to them. When a person is healthy and skilled, they always give up the same amount of their comfort and happiness for their work. The price they pay for things will always be the same, no matter how much stuff they get in return. Sometimes they can get more or less for their work, but it’s the value of the things they buy that changes, not the value of their work. Things that are hard to get or take a lot of work to acquire are always considered expensive, while things that are easy to get are seen as cheap. So, work is the only true way to measure the value of everything at any time or place. It’s the real price; money is just a label for the price.

Even though the value of work is always the same for the worker, it can seem different to the person who hires them. Sometimes it seems like work is worth more or less depending on how many goods they can trade for it. To the employer, the price of labor can change just like the price of everything else. Sometimes it feels expensive, and other times it feels cheap.