The Wealth of Nations

For a long time, people didn’t pay much attention to the Spanish colonies. This didn’t really help them grow better, nor did it hurt them. Compared to other European countries, the Spanish colonies are seen as having fewer people and not doing as well. But even so, the Spanish colonies have actually grown a lot in population and development. 

Take Lima, for example. It was started after the Spanish took over and had about fifty thousand people living there nearly thirty years ago. Quito, which used to be a small village of Native Americans, also grew a lot during the same time. A traveler named Gemel i Carreri, who seems to have known what he was talking about, said that Mexico City had around a hundred thousand people. This number is probably way more than what it had when Montezuma was in charge. These figures are much higher than those of Boston, New York, and Philadelphia, which are the biggest cities in the English colonies.

Before the Spanish arrived, Mexico and Peru didn’t have any strong animals for work. They only had llamas, which weren’t as strong as donkeys. They didn’t even know how to use plows or iron tools. They didn’t have coins or any real money, so they traded goods directly. They used wooden spades for farming, sharp stones for cutting, and fish bones or tough animal tendons as needles for sewing. With all this, it’s hard to believe that those empires could have been as developed as they are now, especially since they now have European animals and tools.

The number of people in a country usually depends on how developed it is. Even though many Native Americans were killed after the conquest, these two big empires probably have more people now than ever before. The people living there are also different now, as the Spanish descendants are often seen as better in many ways than the Native Americans were. 

After the Spanish settled, the Portuguese were the next Europeans to settle in America, specifically in Brazil. But for a long time, they didn’t find any gold or silver mines there, so it didn’t really grow much because of that.