Adam Smith talks about how it's easier to transport cattle by land than by sea. When moving cattle by sea, you also have to bring their food and water, which can be costly and complicated. The short distance between Ireland and Great Britain makes it easier to bring Irish cattle over. However, even if they allowed Irish cattle to be imported all the time, it wouldn’t really help the farmers in Great Britain who raise cattle. 

The areas of Great Britain near the Irish Sea are mostly places where cattle are raised. Irish cattle would have to be driven through these large areas, which would cost a lot and be a hassle before they reach the market. Only lean cattle could be brought in because fat cattle couldn’t be moved that far. Importing lean cattle wouldn’t hurt the farmers who feed and fatten them; it might even help by lowering the price of lean cattle. It would mainly affect the farmers who breed cattle. 

Since Irish cattle were allowed in, not many have been imported, and lean cattle are still selling well. This shows that the breeding farmers in Great Britain won’t be greatly impacted by the import of Irish cattle. Sometimes, people in Ireland have protested against sending their cattle away, but if exporters found it really profitable, they could have easily dealt with those protests when the law supported them.

Feeding and fattening areas are usually well-developed, while breeding areas are often not. The high prices for lean cattle make uncultivated land more valuable, which discourages improvement. For a fully developed country, it would be better to import lean cattle instead of breeding them. For example, Holland is said to do this now. 

In places like Scotland, Wales, and Northumberland, the land isn’t great for improvement and is naturally suited for breeding cattle. Allowing foreign cattle to be imported freely would just stop these breeding areas from benefiting from the growing population and improvements in the rest of the country. This would keep prices high and act like a tax on the more developed parts of the country.

Similarly, allowing a lot of salt provisions to be imported wouldn’t really help the farmers in Great Britain any more than importing live cattle would. Salt provisions take up a lot of space, and compared to fresh meat, they are less appealing.