Adam Smith

To some extent, it's necessary to make kids, especially younger boys, pay attention to certain parts of their education that are important for them to learn early on. But after they turn twelve or thirteen, if the teacher is doing their job well, there’s really no need to force them to learn anything. Most young guys are pretty generous and, instead of ignoring or disrespecting their teacher, they usually try to overlook some mistakes the teacher makes, especially if they see the teacher is genuinely trying to help them.

It's interesting to note that the things we learn without public schools are often taught better. For example, when a young man goes to a fencing or dancing school, he might not always become a great fencer or dancer, but he usually learns at least the basics. The benefits of riding schools aren’t as obvious. Riding schools can be really expensive, so they often end up being public institutions. The three most important skills in education—reading, writing, and math—are still more often learned in private settings than in public schools, and most people manage to learn them well enough.

In England, public schools tend to be less messed up than universities. In schools, students can learn Greek and Latin, which is what the teachers are supposed to teach. But in universities, students often don’t get taught the sciences properly, even though that’s what these institutions are meant to do. A schoolteacher’s pay usually depends a lot on the fees from their students. Schools don’t have special privileges. To graduate, you don’t need to prove you studied a certain number of years at a public school. If you can show that you understand what’s being taught, no one cares where you learned it.

People might say that the subjects taught in universities aren’t taught very well. But if it weren’t for these universities, those subjects might not be taught at all, and both individuals and society would miss out on important education. Most of the universities in Europe started out as religious organizations created for education.