THE MONOPOLY QUESTION

In 2006, a rich tech investor named John Doerr said, “green is the new red, white, and blue.” He could have just said “red.” Doerr pointed out that the internet markets are worth billions of dollars, but energy markets are worth trillions. What he didn’t mention is that these huge markets mean tough and fierce competition. Many people repeated what Doerr said. In the 2000s, I heard a lot of cleantech entrepreneurs start their exciting PowerPoint presentations by talking about these trillion-dollar markets, acting like it was a great thing.

Cleantech leaders talked about how big the energy market was and how there was enough room for everyone. But each one thought their own company was the best. In 2006, Dave Pearce, the CEO of a solar company called MiaSolé, told a congressional panel that his company was just one of many strong startups working on a specific type of solar cell. A few minutes later, he claimed that MiaSolé would be the biggest producer of these solar cells in the world within a year. That didn’t happen, and it might not have mattered anyway because thin-film solar cells are just one type among many. Customers don’t care about a specific technology unless it solves a problem better than others. If you can’t dominate a unique solution for a small market, you’ll face tough competition. That’s what happened to MiaSolé, which was sold in 2013 for hundreds of millions of dollars less than what investors had put into it.

Thinking you’re super unique can mess up your chances of being a monopoly. Imagine you run a solar company that has installed a lot of solar panel systems, generating 100 megawatts of power. Since the total solar energy production in the U.S. is 950 megawatts, you own about 10.53% of the market. You might feel proud and think you’re a big player.

But what if the U.S. solar market isn’t the only one that matters? What if you should be looking at the global solar market, which has a production capacity of 18 gigawatts? Suddenly, your 100 megawatts makes you a tiny player: now you own less than 1% of the market.