THE DURABILITY QUESTION

Every entrepreneur should plan to be the last one standing in their market. This starts with asking yourself: what will the world look like in 10 or 20 years, and how will my business fit in?

Not many cleantech companies had a good answer to this question. Because of that, their stories all ended the same way. A few months before it went bankrupt in 2011, Evergreen Solar explained why it had to close one of its factories in the U.S. They said that solar manufacturers in China were getting a lot of help from their government and had lower costs. Even though Evergreen's production costs were lower than before and cheaper than most companies in the West, they were still much higher than those of their cheap competitors in China.

But it wasn't until 2012 that the blame on China really took off. When Abound Solar filed for bankruptcy, they blamed the low prices from Chinese solar panel companies, saying it made it hard for new companies to grow in the current market. When Energy Conversion Devices went under in February 2012, they went further and sued three big Chinese solar manufacturers for $950 million. These were the same companies that Solyndra's bankruptcy team later sued for trying to take over the market and for unfair pricing. But was it really impossible to see that Chinese manufacturers would be tough competition? Cleantech entrepreneurs should have asked a different question: what will stop China from destroying my business? Without an answer, the outcome shouldn't have shocked anyone.

Besides not seeing the competition from manufacturers of the same green products, cleantech also made some wrong assumptions about the energy market as a whole. They thought fossil fuels were on their way out, but they were caught off guard by the rise of fracking. In 2000, only 1.7% of America's natural gas came from fracked shale. Five years later, that number jumped to 4.1%. Still, no one in cleantech took this trend seriously; they believed renewables were the only way to go and that fossil fuels couldn't possibly get cheaper or cleaner in the future. But they did. By 2013, shale gas made up 34% of America's natural gas, and gas prices had dropped more than 70% since 2008, which hurt most renewable energy business models. Fracking might not be a long-term energy solution either, but it was enough to bring down cleantech companies that didn’t see it coming.