STARTUPS AND EQUITY

Startups don’t have to pay super high salaries because they can offer something cooler: a share of the company. 

Equity, or ownership, is a way to motivate people to help the company grow in the future. But to make sure equity builds commitment instead of causing problems, it has to be given out carefully. 

Giving everyone the same amount of shares is usually a bad idea. That’s because everyone has different skills and responsibilities, so equal shares can feel unfair right from the start. On the flip side, giving different amounts to people can also seem unfair. If people feel resentful about how ownership is shared, it can hurt the company, and there’s no perfect way to avoid this issue. 

This problem gets worse as more people join the company. Early employees often get the most equity because they take more risks, but later employees can be just as important. For example, a secretary who joined eBay in 1996 might have made 200 times more than her boss who started in 1999. The graffiti artist who painted Facebook’s office in 2005 got stock worth $200 million, while a skilled engineer who joined in 2010 might have only made $2 million. Since it’s impossible to be perfectly fair when sharing ownership, founders should keep the details private. 

Sending a company-wide email listing everyone’s ownership would be like dropping a bomb in the office. 

Interestingly, many people don’t even want equity. At PayPal, we once hired a consultant who was supposed to help us make big business deals. The only thing he ever got was a $5,000 cash salary; he didn’t want stock options. Even though there are stories of startup chefs becoming millionaires, many people find equity unattractive. It’s not cash, and it’s tied to one specific company. If that company fails, the equity is worthless. 

Equity is powerful because of these downsides. Anyone who would rather own a part of your company than get cash shows they care about the long term and want to help the company grow. Equity isn’t perfect, but it’s the best way for a founder to keep everyone on the same page.