IS INDEFINITE OPTIMISM EVEN POSSIBLE?

What kind of future will our endlessly positive choices create? If American families were saving money, they could expect to have cash to spend later. And if American companies were investing, they could look forward to making more money in the future. But right now, U.S. families are saving almost nothing. And U.S. companies are just sitting on their cash without investing in new projects because they don’t have any real plans for what’s next.

The other three views of the future can actually work. Definite optimism happens when you create the future you want. Definite pessimism works by sticking to what you know will work without expecting anything new. Indefinite pessimism works because if you don’t try and have low expectations, you’ll probably end up meeting those low expectations. But indefinite optimism seems hard to keep going: how can the future get better if no one is planning for it?

Actually, most people today have already heard an answer to this question: progress without planning is called “evolution.” Darwin said that life tends to “progress” without anyone planning it. Every living thing is just a random version of something else, and the best versions survive.

Darwin’s ideas explain how creatures like trilobites and dinosaurs came to be, but can we use them in other areas? Just like Newtonian physics can’t explain black holes or the Big Bang, it’s not clear that Darwin’s ideas can show us how to create a better society or start a new business from scratch. Still, in recent years, people have started using Darwinian ideas in business. Journalists compare survival in nature to survival in business. That’s why we see headlines like “Digital Darwinism,” “Dot-com Darwinism,” and “Survival of the Clickiest.”

Even in tech-focused Silicon Valley, the latest trends talk about creating a “lean startup” that can “adapt” and “evolve” in a changing world. New entrepreneurs are told that we can’t know anything for sure ahead of time: we’re supposed to listen to what customers want, create just a “minimum viable product,” and keep improving it until we succeed.