that small business owners aren't slow or that good tools don't exist: the real problem is getting products to people.

Marketing and Advertising

Marketing and advertising work well for cheap products that many people like but don’t spread easily. For example, Procter & Gamble can’t pay people to go door-to-door selling laundry detergent. Instead, they talk to grocery stores and big retailers because selling to them can lead to a lot of sales.

To reach customers, companies that sell packaged goods have to make TV commercials, print coupons in newspapers, and design eye-catching product boxes. Advertising can also help new businesses, but only when the cost to get new customers is too high for other ways to sell. Take Warby Parker, for example. They sell stylish prescription glasses online instead of using retail stores. Each pair costs about $100, and since a customer might buy a few pairs in their life, the company makes a few hundred dollars from each customer.

That’s not enough to give personal attention to every sale, but products that cost around $100 don’t go viral easily. By running ads and making fun TV commercials, Warby Parker can show their affordable glasses to millions of people who wear glasses. They say on their website that “TV is a great big megaphone,” and when you can only spend a little to get a new customer, you need the biggest megaphone possible.

Every business owner wishes they could have a famous ad campaign, but new companies should avoid trying to compete with larger businesses for the best TV ads or PR stunts. I learned this the hard way. At PayPal, we hired James Doohan, who played Scotty on Star Trek, to be our spokesperson. When we launched our first software for the PalmPilot, we invited journalists to an event where James would say, “I’ve been beaming people up my whole career, but this is the first time I’ve ever been able to beam money!” It didn’t go well—the few journalists who showed up weren’t impressed. We thought Scotty would be more respected than Captain Kirk, who was always showing off. We were wrong. When Priceline.com used William Shatner, the actor who played Kirk, in their famous TV ads, it worked for them. But by then, Priceline was already a big deal. No new startup can compete with the advertising budgets of big companies. Captain Kirk is in a league of his own.

Viral Marketing

A product is viral if it encourages users to invite their friends to join too. This is how Facebook and PayPal grew quickly: every time someone shares or makes a payment, they naturally bring more people into the network. This method is not only cheap but also fast. If every new user brings in more than one additional user, you can see rapid growth. The best viral loop should be quick and easy. Funny YouTube videos or internet memes get millions of views fast because they have