The problems with trying to copy what others do might explain why people who struggle with social skills, like those with Asperger's, are doing well in Silicon Valley right now. If you don’t pick up on social hints easily, you’re less likely to follow the crowd. If you love making things or coding, you won’t be scared to focus on those interests and get really good at them. When you use your skills, you’re also less likely to change your beliefs just to fit in, which helps you avoid getting lost in competition for obvious rewards.

Competition can make people see chances that aren’t really there. A wild example of this was the battle for online pet stores in the ’90s. It was Pets.com against PetStore.com against Petopia.com and a bunch of others. Each company was so focused on beating the others that they forgot to think about whether selling pet supplies online was even a good idea. Winning is great, but everyone loses when the fight isn’t worth it. When Pets.com went under after the dot-com crash, $300 million in investments disappeared with it.

Sometimes, competition just gets weird and distracting. Take the drama between Larry Ellison, who co-founded Oracle, and Tom Siebel, a top salesperson at Oracle who later started his own company, Siebel Systems, in 1993. Ellison was furious at what he saw as Siebel’s betrayal, while Siebel didn’t like being in Ellison’s shadow. They were pretty much the same—both from Chicago, super competitive, and they both hated losing—so their rivalry was intense. They spent the late ’90s trying to mess with each other. At one point, Ellison sent a ton of ice cream sandwiches to Siebel’s office to try to lure Siebel’s employees away. The wrappers said, “Summer is near. Oracle is here. To brighten your day and your career.”

Interestingly, Oracle actually made enemies on purpose. Ellison believed it was good to have a rival, as long as that rival was big enough to seem threatening but not so big that it could actually hurt the company. So, he probably loved it when a small database company called Informix put up a billboard near Oracle’s headquarters that said: “CAUTION: DINOSAUR CROSSING.” Another Informix billboard on the highway said: “YOU’VE JUST PASSED REDWOOD SHORES. SO DID WE.” Oracle responded with a billboard that suggested Informix’s software was slower than snails.