BUILDING A MONOPOLY

A monopoly is when one company controls a big part of a market. To build one, you need to pick your market wisely and grow carefully.

Start Small and Monopolize

Every new business starts off small. But every monopoly has a huge part of its market. So, every new business should begin in a very small market. It’s better to start too small than too big. 

Why? Because it’s easier to take over a small market than a big one. If you think your starting market is too big, it probably is. 

Starting small doesn’t mean starting with nothing. We learned this lesson at PayPal. Our first product let people send money to each other using PalmPilots. It was cool tech, but nobody really needed it. The PalmPilot users were all over the place and didn’t have much in common. So, we had no customers.

After that, we focused on eBay auctions, where we found our first success. In late 1999, eBay had a few thousand top sellers, and in just three months, we were helping 25% of them. It was way easier to reach a few thousand people who actually needed our product than to compete for attention from millions of random people.

The best market for a new business is a small group of specific people who are close together and have few or no competitors. Big markets are usually a bad idea, especially if there are already companies competing in them. That’s why it’s a warning sign when entrepreneurs talk about getting 1% of a $100 billion market. In reality, a large market is either too hard to start in or already has competition, making it tough to get that 1%. Even if you do manage to get a small part, you might just be breaking even because of the fierce competition.

Scaling Up

Once you take over a small market, you can slowly move into related and slightly bigger markets. 

Amazon is a great example of this. Jeff Bezos wanted to be the best at online shopping, but he started with books. There were tons of books to list, they were all similar in size, easy to ship, and even the rare books that stores didn’t want to keep were loved by customers. Amazon became the go-to place for people far from bookstores or looking for something special. 

Then Amazon had two choices: get more people to read books or expand into other markets. They chose to expand into similar markets like CDs, videos, and software. They kept adding new categories until they became the world’s general store. The name “Amazon” reflects this idea. Just like the Amazon rainforest is full of different life, Amazon started with books and now has everything you can think of. 

eBay also began by taking over small niche markets when it launched its auction site.