In 1995, eBay didn’t need everyone in the world to start using it right away. It worked really well for groups of people who were super into things like Beanie Babies. Once eBay became the go-to place for trading Beanie Babies, it didn’t rush to sell fancy stuff like sports cars. Instead, it kept focusing on everyday hobbyists until it became a trusted place for trading anything online.

But eBay learned that growing isn’t always easy. Like other marketplaces, it naturally attracted a lot of buyers and sellers, but it found out that auctions are best for unique items like coins and stamps. For regular items like pencils or tissues, people prefer just buying them from Amazon. So, while eBay is still a big deal, it’s not as huge as people thought it would be back in 2004.

Getting the order of markets right is really important, and it takes patience to grow slowly. The best companies start by dominating a specific area and then move on to related markets as part of their story.

Silicon Valley has become really focused on “disruption.” This term used to mean how a company could use new tech to create a cheaper product, improve it over time, and eventually beat the older, more expensive products. This is similar to how personal computers took over the market for big mainframe computers. Now, mobile devices might be doing the same thing to PCs.

But lately, “disruption” has turned into a trendy buzzword for anything that seems new and cool. This is important because it can change how entrepreneurs see themselves in a competitive world. The term was meant to describe challenges to established companies, so when startups focus too much on disruption, they start to see themselves as rebels fighting against the big guys. If you think of yourself as a fighter against the old ways, you might get too caught up in the problems you face. If you really want to create something new, focusing on making it is way more important than worrying about the old companies that might not like it. If your company is all about being against existing firms, it’s probably not going to be truly new or become a big deal.

Disruption also gets attention: disruptors are people who look for trouble. Disruptive kids often get sent to the principal’s office, and disruptive companies can end up in fights they can’t win. Take Napster, for example; even its name suggested trouble. What can you “nap”? Music… and maybe not much else.

Shawn Fanning and Sean Parker, the teenage founders of Napster, threatened to shake up the powerful music industry back in 1999. They even made the cover of Time magazine the next year. But just a year and a half later, they found themselves in bankruptcy court.

PayPal could be seen as disruptive too, but we didn’t try to directly challenge any big competitors. Sure, we took some business from Visa by making online payments popular, but we actually helped grow the overall market for payments. So, we ended up giving Visa more business than we took away. This was a positive situation, unlike Napster’s struggle with the music industry. As you plan to grow into new markets, try not to disrupt: avoid competition whenever you can.