THE CASE FOR SECRETS

You can’t find secrets unless you look for them. Andrew Wiles showed this when he proved Fermat’s Last Theorem after 358 years of other mathematicians trying and failing. This long struggle might have made people think the task was impossible. 

Pierre de Fermat guessed in 1637 that no whole numbers a, b, and c could solve the equation a^n + b^n = c^n for any whole number n greater than 2. He said he had a proof, but he died without writing it down, so his idea stayed unsolved for a long time. Wiles started working on it in 1986 but kept it a secret until 1993 when he was close to a solution. After nine years of hard work, Wiles proved the idea in 1995. He needed to be really smart to succeed, but he also had to believe in secrets. 

If you think something difficult is impossible, you won’t even try to achieve it. Believing in secrets is a powerful truth. 

The truth is that there are many more secrets to discover, but you have to search hard for them. There’s still a lot to do in science, medicine, engineering, and technology. We can aim for big goals that even the smartest people from the Scientific Revolution were scared to talk about. We could cure cancer, dementia, and all the diseases that come with getting older. We can find new ways to create energy that stop fights over fossil fuels. We can invent faster ways to travel around the world, and even learn how to leave Earth and explore new places. But we won’t find any of these secrets unless we really want to know them and make ourselves look for them. 

The same goes for business. Amazing companies can be built on hidden secrets about how the world works. Think about the startups in Silicon Valley that have used the extra resources around us that most people ignore. Before Airbnb, travelers had to pay a lot for hotels, and property owners couldn’t easily rent out their empty spaces. Airbnb saw a chance where others saw nothing. The same is true for Lyft and Uber. Few people thought you could create a billion-dollar business just by connecting people who need rides with those who can drive them. We already had taxis and limousines; only by believing in and searching for secrets could you see the opportunity right in front of you. 

The reason many internet companies, like Facebook, are often underestimated is that they seem so simple. This simplicity actually supports the idea of secrets. If ideas that seem basic can lead to important and valuable businesses, there are still many great companies waiting to be started.