This graph shows the big difference between what people think and what’s really going on. 

At Founders Fund, we see this pattern clearly. Facebook was the best investment in our 2005 fund and made more money than all the other investments combined. Palantir, our second-best investment, is also expected to make more money than all the other investments except Facebook. This uneven pattern happens in all our funds. 

The biggest secret in venture capital (VC) is that the best investment in a successful fund usually makes as much or more than all the other investments put together. 

This leads to two strange rules for VCs. First, only invest in companies that could make back the whole fund’s value. This is a tough rule because it cuts out most possible investments. Even companies that do well usually don’t make that much money. This brings us to the second rule: since the first rule is so strict, there can’t be any other rules. 

Think about what happens if you ignore the first rule. In 2010, Andreessen Horowitz invested $250,000 in Instagram. When Facebook bought Instagram just two years later for $1 billion, Andreessen made $78 million. That’s an amazing return, but it’s still not enough because Andreessen has a $1.5 billion fund. If they only invested $250,000 each time, they would need to find 19 companies like Instagram just to break even. That’s why investors usually put in a lot more money into companies that are worth it. 

VCs need to find a few companies that can grow really big and support them with everything they have. 

Of course, no one can know for sure which companies will succeed, so even the best VC firms have a mix of investments, called a portfolio. However, every company in a good venture portfolio should have the potential to become really successful. At Founders Fund, we focus on five to seven companies in a fund, each of which we believe could become a multibillion-dollar business. 

When you start thinking about whether a business fits into a safe investment strategy, venture investing can feel like buying lottery tickets. And once you start thinking you’re playing the lottery, you’re already preparing yourself to lose.