Coercion. He didn’t have any better ideas about what a good society looks like than Rawls did. They both cared more about how things work than the actual outcomes. Nowadays, we make the differences between left-liberal ideas and libertarian ideas seem bigger than they really are because most people kind of agree on the same vague ideas. In philosophy, politics, and business, arguing about how to do things has become a way to avoid making real plans for a better future.

Indefinite Life  
A long time ago, people wanted to figure out how to live longer. In the 1500s, explorers looked in Florida for a Fountain of Youth. Francis Bacon said that “the prolongation of life” should be its own field of medicine, and the best one. In the 1660s, Robert Boyle put life extension at the top of his wish list for future science. Whether through exploring new places or doing lab experiments, the smartest people of the Renaissance saw death as something to overcome. (Some people who tried to fight death ended up dying themselves: Bacon caught pneumonia and died in 1626 while trying to see if freezing a chicken could make it live longer.)

We still don’t know all the secrets of life, but in the 1800s, insurance companies and statisticians figured out something about death that still affects how we think today: they learned how to turn it into a math problem. “Life tables” show us our chances of dying in any year, which people in the past didn’t know. But in getting better insurance, we seem to have stopped looking for ways to live longer. Knowing the current range of human lifespans has made that range feel normal. Today, our society is filled with the ideas that death is both unavoidable and random.

At the same time, these probabilistic views have influenced biology itself. In 1928, a Scottish scientist named Alexander Fleming accidentally discovered penicillin when he found a mold growing on a petri dish he forgot to cover. Since then, scientists have tried to use chance to their advantage. Modern drug discovery aims to take Fleming’s lucky find and multiply it by a million: pharmaceutical companies randomly mix different molecular compounds, hoping to find something that works.

But it’s not going as well as it used to. Even with huge advances in the last two hundred years, biotechnology hasn’t met the hopes of investors or patients in recent years. Eroom’s law— which is Moore’s law backward—shows that the number of new drugs approved for every billion dollars spent on research and development has been cut in half every nine years since 1950. While information technology has sped up more than ever during that time, the big question for biotech now is whether it will ever catch up. Compare biotech startups to those in computer software: