THE RETURN OF THE KING

As the legal issues were wrapping up for Microsoft, which was making Bill Gates less powerful, Steve Jobs came back to Apple and showed how important a founder is to a company. In many ways, Steve Jobs and Bill Gates were very different. Jobs was more of an artist, liked closed systems, and focused on making great products. Gates, on the other hand, was a businessman, kept his products open, and wanted to take over the tech world. But both of them were insiders and outsiders at the same time, and they pushed their companies to do things that no one else could.

Jobs was a college dropout who often walked around barefoot and didn’t care much about showering. He was also the center of his own fan club. He could be charming or a bit crazy, depending on his mood or what he wanted people to think. It’s hard to believe that his strange habits, like only eating apples, weren’t part of some bigger plan. But all this odd behavior backfired on him in 1985 when Apple’s board kicked him out after he had a fight with the professional CEO they hired to keep things in check.

When Jobs came back to Apple 12 years later, it showed that the most important thing in business—creating new value—can’t just be done by following a set plan. When he became the temporary CEO of Apple in 1997, the highly qualified executives before him had almost driven the company to bankruptcy. That year, Michael Dell famously said about Apple, “What would I do? I’d shut it down and give the money back to the shareholders.” But Jobs changed everything by introducing the iPod in 2001, the iPhone in 2007, and the iPad in 2010 before he had to step down in 2011 due to health issues. By the next year, Apple became the most valuable company in the world.

Apple’s worth really depended on the unique vision of one person. This shows that companies creating new technology often work more like old kingdoms than modern organizations. A special founder can make big decisions, inspire loyalty, and plan for the long term. Ironically, big companies run by trained professionals can last longer than any one person’s life, but they usually think only about the short term.