A QUICK HISTORY OF THE ’90S

The 1990s are often seen as a cool time. We remember it as a decade full of hope and good vibes, especially with the rise of the internet. But not everything was great during those years. We’ve forgotten that the excitement of the dot-com boom at the end of the decade came after some tough times.

The ’90s kicked off with a lot of excitement when the Berlin Wall fell in November 1989. But that happy feeling didn’t last long. By mid-1990, the U.S. was in a recession. Even though things started to get better in March 1991, it took a long time for jobs to come back, and unemployment kept rising until July 1992. The manufacturing industry didn’t recover fully, and the shift to a service-based economy was hard for many people.

From 1992 to the end of 1994, things felt pretty gloomy. News about American soldiers dying in Somalia was everywhere. People were worried about jobs moving to Mexico and how the U.S. was doing in the world. This negativity helped push President Bush out of office and allowed Ross Perot, a third-party candidate, to get almost 20% of the vote in 1992, the best for a third-party since 1912. Even though grunge music and bands like Nirvana were popular, they didn’t exactly give people hope.

Silicon Valley wasn’t doing great either. Japan was doing better in the tech world, especially with semiconductors. The internet wasn’t really taking off yet because it was mostly for research and not for everyone until late 1992, and there weren’t many easy-to-use web browsers. Back in 1985, when I started at Stanford, most students were studying economics, not computer science. Tech seemed kind of weird and not that important to most people.

Then everything changed with the internet. The Mosaic browser came out in November 1993, making it easier for regular people to get online. Mosaic later became Netscape, which launched its Navigator browser in late 1994. Navigator grew super fast, going from about 20% of the browser market in January 1995 to almost 80% by the end of the year. Because of this, Netscape was able to go public in August 1995, even though it wasn’t making money yet. In just five months, its stock price jumped from $28 to $174 per share. Other tech companies were also doing well. Yahoo! went public in April 1996 with a value of $848 million, and Amazon followed in May 1997 at $438 million. By spring 1998, their stock prices had more than quadrupled. Some people were worried about how high the stock prices were compared to other companies, thinking the market was going crazy.

This worry was understandable but not quite right. In December 1996, more than three years before the market crashed, the head of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, warned that people might be too excited about the market. Investors were really optimistic, but it’s easy to forget that the rest of the world wasn’t doing so well.

In July 1997, the East Asian financial crisis hit. Countries like Thailand, Indonesia, and South Korea faced huge problems because of bad business practices and a lot of debt. Then in August 1998, Russia had its own crisis when it couldn’t pay its debts and devalued its currency. American investors got scared about a country with nuclear weapons and no money, causing the stock market to drop more than 10% in just a few days.

People were right to be worried. The crisis in Russia caused problems for a big U.S. hedge fund called Long-Term Capital Management. This fund lost $4.6 billion in the last half of 1998 and still had over $100 billion in debts when the Federal Reserve had to step in with a huge bailout and lower interest rates to prevent a major disaster. Europe wasn’t doing well either.