SALES IS HIDDEN

All salespeople are like actors: their main goal is to convince you, not to be honest. That’s why the word “salesman” can sound bad, and used car dealers are often seen as shady. But we only dislike the awkward, obvious salespeople—the bad ones. There are many levels of sales skills, from beginners to experts and even masters. There are even sales grandmasters. If you haven’t met any grandmasters, it’s not because they don’t exist; it’s because they’re really good at hiding what they do.

Tom Sawyer tricked his friends into painting a fence for him, which was a smart move. But getting them to pay him to do his chores was a move of a grandmaster, and his friends had no idea. Not much has changed since Twain wrote about this in 1876.

Like acting, sales works best when it’s not obvious. That’s why many people in jobs related to selling—like sales, marketing, or advertising—have job titles that don’t mention those things. People who sell ads are called “account executives.” Those who find customers work in “business development.” People who sell companies are called “investment bankers.” And those who sell themselves are known as “politicians.” There’s a reason for these fancy titles: nobody wants to feel like they’re being sold to.

In any job, being good at sales sets the stars apart from the rest. On Wall Street, a new worker starts as an “analyst” with technical skills, but their goal is to become a dealmaker. A lawyer might be proud of their qualifications, but law firms are led by the rainmakers who bring in big clients. Even university professors, who think their knowledge is enough, envy those who know how to promote themselves. Ideas about history or English don’t just succeed because they’re smart. Even important science ideas, like those in physics or cancer research, need persuasion to get noticed. The main reason businesspeople often underestimate sales is that it’s hidden in every industry, even though it drives everything.

Engineers dream of creating a product that “sells itself.” But anyone who says that about a real product is probably lying: either they’re fooling themselves or they’re trying to sell something (which makes them a bit hypocritical). The opposite saying warns that “the best product doesn’t always win.” Economists say this happens because of “path dependence,” meaning that specific historical events, not just quality, can decide which products become popular. That’s true, but it doesn’t mean the software we use today and the keyboard layouts we type on just happened by chance. It’s better to think of selling as a key part of designing your product. If you create something new but don’t have a good way to sell it, you have a bad business—no matter how great the product is.