Because globalization and technology are different ways of moving forward, we can have both, either one, or neither at the same time. For example, from 1815 to 1914, there was a lot of new technology and globalization happening quickly. But after World War I and until Kissinger visited China in 1971, there was a lot of new technology but not much globalization. Since 1971, we’ve seen a lot of globalization, but only a little new technology, mostly in information technology.

This time of globalization makes it easy to think that the future will be more similar everywhere. Even the way we talk shows that we believe in a kind of end to technology: we divide the world into “developed” and “developing” countries, suggesting that the developed countries have already achieved everything, and the poorer countries just need to catch up.

But I don’t think that’s right. Most people believe the future will be shaped by globalization, but the truth is that technology is more important. Without new technology, if China doubles its energy production in the next twenty years, it will also double its air pollution. If all of India’s millions of households lived like Americans do today, using only current tools, it would be a disaster for the environment. Spreading old ways to make money around the world will lead to destruction, not wealth. In a world with limited resources, globalization without new technology can’t last.

New technology hasn’t always been a normal part of history. Our ancestors lived in societies where success meant taking things from others. They rarely created new ways to make wealth, and over time, they couldn’t create enough to help the average person live a decent life. Then, after 10,000 years of slow progress from basic farming to medieval inventions, the modern world suddenly saw a lot of technological progress starting with the steam engine in the 1760s and continuing until about 1970.

Because of this, we now have a richer society than any previous generation could have imagined. Except for our parents’ and grandparents’ generation: in the late 1960s, they expected...