ENERGY 2.0

Tesla shows that clean technology (cleantech) isn't a bad idea. The main point is that we really need new energy sources. Energy is super important because it helps us eat, build homes, and make everything we need to live well. Many people around the world want to live as comfortably as Americans do today. But as the world gets more connected, we will face bigger energy problems unless we create new technologies. There just aren't enough resources to keep doing things the old way or to share what we have to make everyone wealthy.

Cleantech gave people hope for the future of energy. But when investors got too excited about green energy and funded cleantech companies without solid plans, it created a bubble. If you look at the value of alternative energy companies in the 2000s and compare it to the rise and fall of the NASDAQ a decade earlier, you'll see they look similar. In the 1990s, everyone thought the internet was going to be huge. But too many internet companies had the same idea without anything else to offer. An entrepreneur needs to have a specific plan, not just a big idea.

Cleantech companies had the same issue: even though the world needs energy, only companies that provide a great solution for a specific energy problem can make money. No industry is so important that just being part of it will help you build a successful company.

The tech bubble was much bigger than cleantech, and the crash hurt even more. But the dream of the '90s turned out to be true: people who doubted that the internet would change things looked smart in 2001, but now they seem silly. Can new energy startups be created after the cleantech crash, just like successful web companies came out of the dot-com crash? The need for energy solutions is still real. But to be valuable, a business must start by finding a small market and dominating it. Facebook began as a service for one college before expanding to others and then the whole world. Finding small markets for energy solutions will be tough—you might try to replace diesel for remote islands or create quick-deploy reactors for military bases in tough areas. Ironically, the challenge for the entrepreneurs who will create Energy 2.0 is to think small.