WHAT TO DO WITH THE POWER LAW

The power law is important for everyone, not just investors. Everyone is an investor in some way. For example, an entrepreneur spends a lot of time on their startup, which is a big investment. So, every entrepreneur needs to think about whether their company will succeed and be valuable. Even you are an investor when you choose a career, believing that your job will be valuable in the future.

The usual advice is to have a diversified portfolio, which means not putting all your eggs in one basket. People say this because it’s believed that spreading out your investments is safer. Even experienced investors have a portfolio, but those who understand the power law tend to make fewer investments. While many think that diversifying is a smart strategy, it can actually be a weakness. The more you spread yourself thin, the less secure you might feel about the future.

But life isn’t like a portfolio for anyone, including startup founders. An entrepreneur can’t just “diversify” by running many companies at once and hoping one will succeed. Similarly, you can’t keep many career options on standby and expect them all to work out. 

Schools teach the opposite. Education often gives everyone the same kind of knowledge. In American schools, classes are the same length no matter the subject, and students move at the same pace. In college, students try to cover their bases by learning a bunch of different skills. Universities focus on “excellence” and have long lists of courses to make it seem like it doesn’t matter what you study, as long as you do well. But that’s not true. What you do matters a lot. You should focus on what you’re good at, but first, you need to think about whether it will be valuable in the future.

For those interested in startups, this means you might not need to start your own company, even if you’re really talented. In fact, too many people are starting their own businesses today. Those who understand the power law think twice before launching a new venture. They realize they could be much more successful by joining a top company while it’s growing. The power law shows that the differences between companies are much bigger than the differences in roles within those companies. You could own 100% of your own failing business and end up with nothing, while owning just a tiny part of a successful company like Google could be worth millions.

If you do decide to start your own company, keep the power law in mind to run it well. Focus on one market that is likely to be the best, and find one distribution strategy that works best. Time and decision-making also follow the power law, meaning some moments are way more important than others. You can’t rely on a world that ignores the power law to help you make decisions, so what’s most important might not be obvious. It could even be a secret. In a world shaped by the power law, you need to think carefully about where your actions will land on that curve.