have been pessimists. Even today, a lot of people in the world are still negative about the future. An indefinite pessimist looks at the future and sees nothing but problems, but they don’t know how to fix them. This has been true for Europe since the 1970s when things started to go downhill without any clear direction. Right now, the Eurozone is in a slow crisis, and no one is really in charge. The European Central Bank doesn’t have a solid plan; it’s like they’re just making things up as they go. While the U.S. dollar says “In God We Trust,” the euro could just as easily say “Let’s Just Wait and See.” People in Europe just react to what happens and hope it doesn’t get worse. An indefinite pessimist can’t tell if things will get bad quickly or slowly. All they can do is wait, so they might as well enjoy life in the meantime, which is why Europeans love to take vacations.

A definite pessimist believes that the future can be predicted, and since it looks bad, they need to get ready for it. Surprisingly, China is probably the most definitely pessimistic place in the world right now. When Americans see China’s economy growing super fast (10% a year since 2000), they think it’s a confident country that knows what it’s doing. But that’s because Americans are generally optimistic and project that onto China. From China’s perspective, they feel like they need to grow even faster. While other countries worry that China will take over, China is the only one worried that it might not.

China can grow quickly because it started from a low point. The easiest way for them to grow is by copying what has worked in the West. That’s exactly what they’re doing: making solid plans to build more factories and skyscrapers, even if it means burning more coal. But with so many people, prices for resources are going up, and the Chinese know they can’t reach the living standards of the richest countries. 

That’s why the leaders in China are really focused on the things that could go wrong. Every top leader has experienced hunger as a child, so when they think about the future, they see real dangers. The Chinese public also knows that tough times are ahead. While outsiders are amazed by the wealth being created in China, they often overlook the wealthy Chinese trying to move their money out of the country. Poorer people in China save everything they can and hope it will be enough. Everyone in China takes the future very seriously.

A definite optimist believes that the future will be better than today if they plan and work hard to make it happen. From the 17th century to the 1950s and ’60s, definite optimists were leading the Western world. Scientists, engineers, doctors, and businesspeople made life richer, healthier, and longer than ever before. As Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels pointed out, the business class in the 19th century created more powerful tools and systems than all the generations before them combined. They harnessed nature, invented machines, applied chemistry to industries and farming, built railways, electric telegraphs, and cleared land for farming, creating entire populations from scratch.