a lack of need; it’s just hard to reach them.

Good Sales Strategy  
A good sales strategy starts small. When you get a new customer, they might want to become your biggest customer, but they usually won’t feel comfortable making a huge deal right away. Once you have some customers who are happy with your product, you can work on getting bigger deals over time.

Personal Sales  
Most sales aren’t super complicated. The average deal can be between $10,000 and $100,000, and the CEO doesn’t have to do all the selling. The real challenge is creating a process so that a small sales team can reach a lot of people.

In 2008, Box had a great way for companies to store their data safely in the cloud. But not many people knew they needed it because cloud computing wasn’t popular yet. That summer, Blake was hired as Box’s third salesperson to change that. He started by talking to small groups of users who had big problems with file sharing. Box’s sales reps built relationships with more users in each company. In 2009, Blake sold a small Box account to the Stanford Sleep Clinic, which needed a secure way to store research data. Now, Stanford offers a Box account to all its students and staff, and the hospital uses Box too. If Box had tried to sell a big plan to the university president right away, they wouldn’t have sold anything. A complicated sales approach would have made Box fail, but personal sales helped it become a huge business.

Sometimes the product itself helps with sales. ZocDoc is a company that helps people find and book doctor appointments online. They charge doctors a few hundred dollars a month to join their network. With each deal being just a few thousand dollars, ZocDoc needs a lot of salespeople, so they even have a team just to hire more. Selling to doctors not only brings in money but also makes the service better for users. More users attract more doctors. Right now, over 5 million people use ZocDoc each month, and if they can get most doctors on board, they’ll become an essential part of the U.S. healthcare system.

Distribution Problems  
There’s a gap between personal sales, which need salespeople, and traditional advertising, which doesn’t. Imagine you create software to help convenience store owners manage their inventory. If it costs around $1,000, it might be hard to find a way to reach those small businesses. Even if your product is great, how do you get the word out? Advertising might be too broad, like trying to reach everyone on TV, or too weak, like an ad in a magazine that won’t convince anyone to spend $1,000. You need personal sales, but at that price, you can’t afford to send someone to talk to every potential customer. That’s why many small businesses don’t use tools that bigger companies find normal. It’s not that they don’t need them; it’s just hard to connect with them.