Then Informix CEO Phil White decided to make things personal. When he found out that Larry Ellison liked Japanese samurai culture, he made a new billboard showing the Oracle logo with a broken samurai sword. The ad wasn’t really meant for Oracle or the public; it was a personal jab at Ellison. But maybe White was too focused on the competition: while he was busy making billboards, Informix fell apart in a huge accounting scandal, and White ended up in federal prison for securities fraud.

If you can’t beat a rival, it might be better to join forces. I started Confinity with my co-founder Max Levchin in 1998. When we launched the PayPal product in late 1999, Elon Musk’s X.com was right behind us. Our offices were just four blocks apart in Palo Alto, and X’s product was almost the same as ours. By late 1999, we were in a full-on battle. Many of us at PayPal worked 100-hour weeks. That wasn’t really smart, but we weren’t focused on being productive; we just wanted to beat X.com. One of our engineers even designed a bomb for this purpose, but when he showed it at a team meeting, everyone calmed down and said it was just because he was super tired.

But in February 2000, Elon and I were more worried about the tech bubble getting bigger than we were about each other: a financial crash would ruin us both before we could finish our fight. So in early March, we met at a café halfway between our offices and talked about merging our companies 50-50. It wasn’t easy to stop the rivalry after merging, but it was a good problem to have. As a united team, we managed to survive the dot-com crash and build a successful business.

Sometimes you do have to fight. When that happens, you should fight to win. There’s no middle ground: either don’t fight at all, or go all in and finish it quickly. This advice can be tough to follow because pride and honor can get in the way. That’s where Hamlet comes in: 

Exposing what is mortal and unsure  
To all that fortune, death, and danger dare,  
Even for an eggshell. Rightly to be great  
Is not to stir without great argument,  
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw  
When honor’s at the stake.

For Hamlet, being great means being ready to fight for even the smallest things: anyone would fight for what really matters; true heroes take their honor so seriously that they will fight for things that don’t matter. This twisted way of thinking is part of being human, but it can be a disaster in business. If you can see competition as something harmful instead of a sign of value, you’re already smarter than most. The next chapter is about how to use a clear mind to build a monopoly business.