FOLLOW THE MONEY

MONEY MAKES MONEY. “People who have money will get more, and they will have a lot. Those who don’t have money will lose even what little they have” (Matthew 25:29). 

Albert Einstein said that compound interest is “the eighth wonder of the world,” “the greatest math discovery ever,” or even “the most powerful force in the universe.” No matter how you say it, his point is clear: don’t underestimate how fast things can grow when they build on each other. 

Actually, there’s no proof that Einstein really said those things—the quotes are made up. But this mistake shows his point: even after his death, people still give him credit for ideas he never claimed. 

Most quotes fade away, but a few people like Einstein and Shakespeare are quoted all the time. This isn’t surprising because a small number of people often achieve way more than everyone else. In 1906, economist Vilfredo Pareto found out about the “Pareto principle,” or the 80-20 rule. He noticed that 20% of people owned 80% of the land in Italy, and he thought it was just as normal as how 20% of the pea pods in his garden produced 80% of the peas. 

This pattern, where a few people or things are way ahead of the rest, is everywhere in nature and society. The strongest earthquakes are much more powerful than all the smaller ones combined. The biggest cities are way larger than all the small towns put together. And big companies make more money than millions of smaller competitors. 

Whatever Einstein did or didn’t say, the power law—named because it shows how some things are way more common than others—is a rule of the universe. It shapes our world so much that we often don’t even notice it. 

This chapter explains how you can see the power law when you follow the money: in venture capital, where investors look to profit from the fast growth of new companies, a few companies become worth much more than all the others. Most businesses don’t deal with venture capital, but everyone needs to understand one important thing that even venture capitalists find tricky: we don’t live in a normal world; we live under a power law.