BEYOND PROFESSIONALISM

The first team I built is known in Silicon Valley as the “PayPal Mafia” because many of my old coworkers have helped each other start and invest in successful tech companies. We sold PayPal to eBay for $1.5 billion in 2002. Since then, Elon Musk started SpaceX and helped create Tesla Motors. Reid Hoffman co-founded LinkedIn. Steve Chen, Chad Hurley, and Jawed Karim together created YouTube. Jeremy Stoppelman and Russel Simmons started Yelp. David Sacks co-founded Yammer, and I co-founded Palantir. Today, all seven of these companies are worth over $1 billion each. PayPal’s office perks didn’t get much attention, but the team has done really well, both together and individually. The strong culture we built helped us succeed even after leaving the original company.

We didn’t create a mafia by just looking at resumes and hiring the most skilled people. I saw how that approach didn’t always work when I worked at a law firm in New York. The lawyers there ran a successful business and were impressive on their own. But their relationships with each other were pretty weak. They spent all day together, but hardly talked outside of work. Why work with people who don’t even like each other? Many think it’s a necessary sacrifice to make money. But just seeing work as a business deal is not only cold; it doesn’t make sense. Since time is your most valuable asset, it’s strange to spend it with people who don’t plan to stick together long-term. If you can’t build lasting relationships at work, you’re not using your time wisely—even if you’re just thinking about money.

From the beginning, I wanted PayPal to feel like a close-knit group instead of just a business. I believed that stronger relationships would make us happier, better at our jobs, and more successful in our careers, even after PayPal. So we aimed to hire people who would actually enjoy working together. They needed to be talented, but more importantly, they had to be excited about working with us. That was how the PayPal Mafia began.