extremely short cycle times: people see the kitten, feel warm inside, and send it to their friends in just a few seconds.

At PayPal, we started with only 24 users, all of whom worked at the company. Getting new customers through ads was too costly. Instead, we decided to pay people to sign up and even more to refer their friends. This plan cost us $20 for each new customer, but it helped us grow by 7% every day. That meant our number of users almost doubled every 10 days. After four or five months, we had hundreds of thousands of users and a good chance to build a successful company by helping people send money for small fees that were much lower than what we spent to get customers.

The first company to take over the most important part of a market with viral potential usually ends up being the last one standing. At PayPal, we didn’t want random users; we wanted the best users first. The easiest group to target for email payments was the millions of immigrants using Western Union to send money home. Our product made this super easy, but people didn’t use it often enough. We needed a smaller group that used money more frequently, and we found that with eBay’s “PowerSellers,” who were the professional sellers on eBay. There were 20,000 of them, and they had multiple auctions ending every day, buying and selling a lot. This meant there were constant payments happening. Plus, eBay’s payment system was really bad, so these sellers were excited to try PayPal. Once we became the main payment option for eBay, no one could catch up to us.

The Power Law of Distribution

One of these methods is likely to be way more effective than all the others for any business: distribution follows its own power law. This can be surprising for many entrepreneurs, who think that more effort means better results. But trying to do everything—hiring a few salespeople, running some magazine ads, and adding viral features to the product later—doesn’t work. Most businesses fail not because their product is bad, but because they can’t get any distribution channels to work. If you can make just one distribution channel successful, you can have a great business. If you try several but don’t succeed with one, you’re done for.

Selling to Non-Customers

Your company needs to do more than just sell its product. You also have to sell your company to employees and investors. There’s a common myth that great products sell themselves: “This company is so good that everyone will want to work here.” There’s also a fundraising myth: “This company is so amazing that investors will be eager to give us money.” While excitement is real, it usually doesn’t happen without careful recruiting and pitching behind the scenes. 

You also need to sell your company to the media, which is important for getting the word out to everyone else. People who are skeptical of the media often make the mistake of ignoring it. But just like you can’t expect people to buy a great product without a good distribution plan, you shouldn’t think that people will admire your company without a public relations strategy. Even if your product doesn’t need media coverage to get customers because...