Which of the four options will we choose? 

It seems unlikely that everything will completely fall apart. Today, we have so much knowledge that it’s more likely we’d face total destruction than a long period of darkness followed by recovery. If we do face extinction, there won’t be any future for humanity to think about. 

If we think of the future as a time that looks different from now, most people don’t expect much change. Instead, they think the next few decades will bring more globalization, where countries become more alike. In this view, poorer countries will catch up with richer ones, and the world will reach a point where the economy levels off. But even if this global balance could happen, could it last? In the best case, competition for jobs and resources would be tougher than ever for everyone. 

When you add competition for limited resources, it’s hard to see how this balance could last forever. Without new technology to ease the pressure, things could get tense and lead to conflict. If there’s conflict on a global scale, that balance could collapse completely. 

That brings us to the fourth option, where we create new technology for a much better future. The most exciting version of this is called the Singularity. This idea suggests that new technologies could be so advanced that they go beyond what we currently understand. Ray Kurzweil, a well-known supporter of this idea, talks about how technology is growing rapidly and predicts a future with super-smart artificial intelligence. He believes that “the Singularity is near” and that we just need to get ready for it. 

But no matter how many trends we can see, the future won’t just happen by itself. What the Singularity might look like is less important than the big choice we have right now: nothing or something. It’s up to us to make sure the future is better, and that means we need to work on it today. 

Whether we reach the Singularity on a huge scale isn’t as important as taking the chances we have to do new things in our own lives. Everything that matters to us—the universe, the planet, our country, your job, your life, and this moment—is unique. 

Our job today is to find special ways to create new things that will make the future not just different, but better—to go from nothing to something. The first step is to think for yourself. Only by seeing