1. Take small steps  
Big dreams can lead to problems, so it's better not to get carried away. If someone says they can do something amazing, be careful. If someone wants to change the world, they should be more down-to-earth. The best way to move forward is by taking small, steady steps.

2. Keep it simple and adaptable  
All businesses should be “lean,” which means they shouldn’t have strict plans. You shouldn’t know exactly what your business will do; having a fixed plan can be too rigid. Instead, try different things, learn from them, and treat starting a business like a science experiment.

3. Build on what’s already out there  
Don’t rush to create something completely new. The best way to know if your business will work is to start with customers who already exist. So, focus on making better versions of products that are already successful.

4. Prioritize the product over sales  
If your product needs a lot of ads or salespeople to sell it, then it probably isn’t good enough. Technology should focus on making great products, not just on selling them. In the past, spending too much on ads was a waste, so the best growth comes from people sharing your product on their own.

These ideas have become popular in the startup world, and ignoring them can lead to failure like what happened in the tech crash of 2000. But actually, the opposite ideas might be more accurate:  
1. Taking big risks can be better than playing it safe.  
2. Having a bad plan is better than having no plan at all.  
3. Competitive markets can hurt profits.  
4. Sales are just as important as the product.

It’s true that there was a tech bubble. In the late '90s, people were overly confident, thinking they could go from nothing to something amazing. Many startups talked a big game but didn’t deliver. However, people realized they had to find ways to do more with less.

The market peak in March 2000 was a crazy time, but it also made people think clearly. They looked ahead and saw how much new technology we would need and believed they could create it.

We still need new technology, and maybe we need some of that bold confidence from 1999 to get it. To build the next wave of companies, we should let go of the strict rules made after the crash. But that doesn’t mean we should automatically believe the opposite ideas are true. Instead, think about how much of what you know about business comes from overreacting to past mistakes. The most unique thing you can do is not just go against the crowd but to think for yourself.