MAN AND MACHINE

As industries slow down, technology, especially information technology, has grown super fast and is now what we think of when we hear "technology." Right now, over 1.5 billion people can easily access a ton of information using their smartphones. Today's smartphones are way more powerful than the computers that helped astronauts land on the moon. If things keep going like this, future computers will be even stronger.

Computers can already do things we used to think only humans could do. For example, in 1997, IBM’s Deep Blue beat the world chess champion Garry Kasparov. In 2011, IBM’s Watson won against Ken Jennings, the best contestant on Jeopardy! Plus, Google’s self-driving cars are already driving around in California. While race car driver Dale Earnhardt Jr. doesn’t need to worry about them, some people are concerned that self-driving cars could lead to job losses for many drivers.

People expect computers to take on even more tasks in the future, and some wonder if there will be any jobs left for humans in 30 years. Venture capitalist Marc Andreessen has said, “Software is eating the world,” suggesting that computers will take over. Another VC, Andy Kessler, seems excited about the idea that getting rid of jobs can boost productivity. Forbes even asked its readers if machines might replace them.

Some futurists seem to want machines to take over, while others, called Luddites, are so scared of being replaced that they want to stop new technology from being made. Both sides believe that better computers will replace human workers, but that idea is wrong. Computers should help humans, not replace them. The best businesses in the future will be those that empower people instead of making them obsolete.

**PAGE SUMMARY:** Technology is advancing quickly, with computers now able to do tasks once thought unique to humans. While some fear job losses due to machines, the reality is that computers should complement human work, not replace it. The future will favor businesses that empower people.