PAYPAL MANIA

When I was in charge of PayPal in late 1999, I was super nervous—not because I didn’t believe in our company, but because everyone around me seemed ready to believe anything. Everywhere I looked, people were starting and selling companies like it was no big deal. One guy I knew even planned to go public from his living room before he had even set up his company—and he thought that was normal. In this crazy environment, acting like you had a plan felt weird.

At least PayPal had a big goal—something that later critics would call too ambitious: we wanted to create a new online currency to replace the U.S. dollar. Our first product let people send money from one PalmPilot to another. But honestly, nobody wanted that product except for reporters who named it one of the 10 worst business ideas of 1999. PalmPilots were still pretty rare, but email was already popular, so we decided to make a way to send and receive payments through email.

By fall of ’99, our email payment system worked great—anyone could log in to our website and send money easily. But we didn’t have enough customers, growth was slow, and our costs were piling up. For PayPal to succeed, we needed at least a million users. Advertising wasn’t working well enough to cover the costs. Deals with big banks kept falling apart. So, we decided to pay people to sign up.

We offered new customers $10 just for joining, and another $10 for every friend they referred. This got us hundreds of thousands of new customers and our growth really took off. Of course, this way of getting customers couldn’t last forever—paying people to join meant our costs kept going up too. Huge expenses were normal in the Valley at that time. But we thought our big costs made sense: with a lot of users, PayPal could make money by charging a small fee on transactions.

We knew we needed more money to reach that goal. We also realized that the good times wouldn’t last forever. Since we didn’t think investors would keep believing in us when the crash came, we rushed to raise funds while we could. On February 16, 2000, the Wall Street Journal wrote a story praising our rapid growth and saying PayPal was worth $500 million. When we raised $100 million the next month, our main investor took the Journal’s quick estimate seriously.

Other investors were even more eager. A South Korean company sent us $5 million without even negotiating a deal or signing anything. When I tried to give the money back, they wouldn’t tell me where to send it. That March 2000 funding helped us buy the time we needed to make PayPal successful. Just as we closed the deal, the bubble burst.