WHY AREN’T PEOPLE LOOKING FOR SECRETS?

Most people act like there are no secrets left to discover. A really extreme example of this is Ted Kaczynski, who is known as the Unabomber. He was a child genius who started college at Harvard when he was just 16. He later got a PhD in math and became a professor at UC Berkeley. But you only know about him because he carried out a 17-year campaign of terror using pipe bombs against professors, tech experts, and business people.

In late 1995, no one knew who the Unabomber was or where he was hiding. The biggest clue was a 35,000-word manifesto he wrote and sent to the media anonymously. The FBI asked some big newspapers to publish it, hoping someone would recognize it. It worked: Kaczynski’s brother saw the writing style and reported him.

You might think the writing would sound crazy, but the manifesto actually made a lot of sense. Kaczynski said that to be happy, everyone needs to have goals that take effort to achieve and should succeed in reaching some of those goals. He split human goals into three categories:

1. Goals that are easy to achieve.
2. Goals that take serious effort.
3. Goals that can never be achieved, no matter how hard you try.

This is the classic idea of easy, hard, and impossible goals. Kaczynski believed that people today are unhappy because all the tough problems have already been solved. What’s left to do is either easy or impossible, and working on those things isn’t fulfilling. The easy stuff is something anyone can do, and the impossible stuff is beyond even the smartest people. So, Kaczynski thought the solution was to destroy current systems, get rid of all technology, and let people start fresh to tackle hard problems again.

Kaczynski’s methods were extreme, but his lack of faith in technology is something we see everywhere. Think about the trendy things in cities, like old-school photography, handlebar mustaches, and vinyl records. These all remind us of a time when people were still hopeful about the future. If you believe that everything important has already been done, you might as well pretend you don’t care about success and just work as a barista.