THE WORLD ACCORDING TO CONVENTION

How do you see the world if you think there are no secrets? You’d have to think we’ve figured out all the big questions. If today’s ideas are right, we can feel pretty good about ourselves: “Everything’s fine in the world.”

For example, a world without secrets would understand justice perfectly. Every unfair situation has a truth that most people don’t see at first. In a democratic society, a bad practice continues only when most people don’t see it as wrong. At first, only a few people against slavery knew it was evil; now everyone agrees, but back in the early 1800s, it was still a secret. If we say there are no secrets today, it means we live in a society without hidden unfairness.

In economics, not believing in secrets leads to trusting that markets work well. But financial bubbles show that markets can be really messed up. The more people believe that markets are efficient, the bigger the bubbles get. In 1999, no one wanted to believe that the internet was way overvalued. The same thing happened with housing in 2005: Fed chairman Alan Greenspan noticed some “signs of froth in local markets” but said a nationwide housing bubble didn’t seem likely. People thought the market had all the right information and couldn’t be wrong. Then home prices dropped everywhere, and the financial crisis of 2008 lost trillions. The future had many secrets that economists couldn’t just ignore.

What happens when a company stops believing in secrets? The sad story of Hewlett-Packard (HP) shows what can go wrong. In 1990, the company was worth $9 billion. Then came a decade of new ideas. In 1991, HP launched the DeskJet 500C, the first affordable color printer. In 1993, they released the OmniBook, one of the first super portable laptops. The next year, they introduced the OfficeJet, the first all-in-one printer/fax/copier. This nonstop product growth worked out well: by mid-2000, HP was worth $135 billion.

But starting in late 1999, when HP started a new campaign about “inventing,” they stopped coming up with new ideas. In 2001, they launched HP Services, which was just a fancy consulting and support service. In 2002, HP merged with Compaq because they didn’t know what else to do. By 2005, the company’s value dropped to $70 billion—about half of what it was just five years earlier.

HP’s board was a small version of the problems: it split into two groups, and only one cared about new technology. That group was led by Tom Perkins, an engineer who joined HP in 1963 to run the research division. At 73 years old in 2005, Perkins seemed like he came from a time when people were more hopeful: he thought the board should find the best new technologies and have HP create them. But his group lost to the other side, led by chairwoman Patricia Dunn. Dunn, who was a banker, thought the board shouldn’t try to plan for future technology. She believed they should just make sure everything was okay with the accounting and rules.

During this fighting, someone on the board started leaking info to the press. When it came out that Dunn set up illegal wiretaps to find out who it was, the backlash was worse than the original problem, and the board was embarrassed. Instead of searching for new tech ideas, HP got caught up in gossip. Because of this, by late 2012, HP was worth just $23 billion—not much more than it was worth in 1990, even when you adjust for inflation.