CHARACTERISTICS OF MONOPOLY

What does a company with a lot of money coming in for a long time look like? Every monopoly is different, but they usually have some of these features: special technology, network effects, economies of scale, and strong branding. This isn’t just a checklist for starting your business—there’s no easy way to create a monopoly. However, looking at your business through these features can help you think about how to make it last.

1. Proprietary Technology

Proprietary technology is a big advantage for a company because it makes your product hard or impossible to copy. For example, Google’s search algorithms give better results than anyone else’s. Their technology for super-fast page loading and accurate search suggestions makes their search engine really strong and hard to beat. It would be tough for anyone to do what Google did to other search engines back in the early 2000s.

A good rule to remember is that proprietary technology should be at least 10 times better than the closest competitor in some important way to really create a monopoly. If it’s not that much better, people might just see it as a small upgrade, which can be hard to sell, especially in a busy market.

The best way to make a 10x improvement is to invent something completely new. If you create something valuable that didn’t exist before, the value can be huge. For example, a drug that lets people not need sleep or a cure for baldness would definitely support a monopoly business.

You can also make a big improvement to something that already exists. Once you’re 10 times better, you can avoid competition. PayPal, for instance, made buying and selling on eBay at least 10 times easier. Instead of waiting 7 to 10 days for a check to arrive, PayPal let buyers pay right after an auction ended. Sellers got their money right away and knew it was good.

Amazon made its first big improvement in a clear way: they offered at least 10 times more books than any other bookstore. When it started in 1995, Amazon could say it was “Earth’s largest bookstore” because, unlike regular bookstores that might have 100,000 books, Amazon didn’t need to keep any books in stock. They just asked their supplier for the book when someone ordered it. This huge improvement was so effective that a very unhappy Barnes & Noble sued Amazon just three days before its IPO, saying Amazon was unfairly calling itself a “bookstore” when it was really a “book broker.”

You can also make a 10x improvement by having a better design. Before 2010, tablets were so bad that the market was almost nonexistent. Microsoft released some tablet products in 2002, and Nokia had an “Internet Tablet” in 2005, but they were hard to use. Then Apple came out with the iPad. It’s hard to measure design improvements, but it’s clear that Apple made tablets go from useless to really useful by a huge amount.