When else in history could such a small amount of labor be involved in such a large amount of value? With so little input from labor, the proportion of this wealth that flows back to the machine owners—in this case, the venture investors—is without precedent. It’s no wonder that a venture capitalist I interviewed for my last book admitted to me with some concern, “Everyone wants my job.” Let’s pull together the threads spun so far: Current economic thinking, as I’ve surveyed, argues that the unprecedented growth and impact of technology are creating a massive restructuring of our economy. In this new economy, three groups will have a particular advantage: those who can work well and creatively with intelligent machines, those who are the best at what they do, and those with access to capital.
 
 To be clear, this Great Restructuring identified by economists like Brynjolfsson, McAfee, and Cowen is not the only economic trend of importance at the moment, and the three groups mentioned previously are not the only groups who will do well, but what’s important for this book’s argument is that these trends, even if not alone, are important, and these groups, even if they are not the only such groups, will thrive. If you can join any of these groups, therefore, you’ll do well. If you cannot, you might still do well, but your position is more precarious.
 
 The question we must now face is the obvious one: How does one join these winners? At the risk of quelling your rising enthusiasm, I should first confess that I have no secret for quickly amassing capital and becoming the next John Doerr. (If I had such secrets, it’s unlikely I’d share them in a book.) The other two winning groups, however, are accessible. How to access them is the goal we tackle next.
 
 How to Become a Winner in the New Economy I just identified two groups that are poised to thrive and that I claim are accessible: those who can work creatively with intelligent machines and those who are stars in their field. What’s the secret to landing in these lucrative sectors of the widening digital divide? I argue that the following two core abilities are crucial.
 
 Two Core Abilities for Thriving in the New Economy 1. The ability to quickly master hard things.
 
 2. The ability to produce at an elite level, in terms of both quality and speed.
 
