88 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM areas where such a policy would be feasible, government has instead assumed the financial costs of providing schooling. It has paid, not only for the minimum amount of schooling required of all, but also for additional schooling at higher levels available to youngsters but not required of them. One argument for both steps is the "neighborhood effects" discussed above. The costs are paid because this is the only feasible means of enforcing the required minimum. Additional schooling is financed because other people benefit from the schooling of those of greater ability and interest, since this is a way of pro viding better social and political leadership. The gain from these measures must be balancec against the costs, and there can be much honest difference Of judgment about how exten sive a subsidy is justified. Most of us, however, would probably conclude that the gains are sufficiently important to justify somegovernment subsidy.
 
 These grounds justify government subsidy of only certain kinds of schooling. To anticipate, they do not justify subsidiz ing purely vocational training which increases the economic productivity of the student but does not train him for either citizenship or leadership. It is extremely difficult to draw a sharp line between the two types of schooling. Most general schooling adds to the economic value of the student- indeed it is only in modern times and in a few countries that literacy has ceased to have a marketable value. And much vocational training broadens the student's outlook. Yet the distinction is meaningful. Subsidizing the training of veterinarians, beau ticians, dentists, and a host of other specialists, as is widely done in the United States in governmentally supported educa tional institutions, cannot be justified on the same grounds as subsidizing elementary schools or, at a higher level, liberal arts colleges. Whether it can be justified on quite different grounds will be discussed later in this chapter.
 
 The qualitative argument from "neighborhood effects" does not, of course, determine the specific kinds of schooling that should be subsidized or by how much they should be subsi dized. The social gain presumably is greatest for the lowest levels of schooling, where there is the nearest approach to una nimity about content, and declines continuously as the level TheRoleof Governmentin Education of schooling rises.
 
