A waveof bank failures would taper down a while, and then start up again as afew dramaticfailures or otherevents produced a new loss of confidence in the banking system and a new series of runs on banks.Thesewereimportantnotonlyorevenprimarily becauseofthefailures ofthebanks butbecauseoftheir effecton themoneystock.
 
 In a fractional reserve banking system like ours, a bank does not of course have a dollar of currency (or its equivalent) for a dollar of deposits. That is why "deposits" is such a misleading term. When you deposit a dollar of cash in a bank, the bank may add fifteen or twenty cents to its cash; the rest it will lend out through another window. The borrower may in turn rede posit it, in this or another bank, and the process is repeated.
 
 The result is thatfor every dollar of cash owned by banks, they owe several dollars ofdeposits. The total stock ofmoney- cash plus deposits- for a given amount of cash is therefore higher the larger the fraction of its money the public is willing to hold as deposits. Any widespread attempt on the part of depositors to "get their money" must therefore mean a decline in the total amount ofmoney unless there is some way in which additional cashcanbe created andsomewayfor bankstogetit. Otherwise, one bank, in trying to satisfy its depositors, will putpressure on otherbanksby callingloans orsellinginvestmentsorwithdraw ing its deposits and these other banks in turn will put pressure on still others. The vicious cycle, if allowed to proceed, grows on itself as the attempt of banks to get cash forces down the prices ofsecurities,rendersbanksinsolventthatwouldotherwise have been entirely sound, shakes the confidence of depositors, and starts the cycle over again.
 
 This was precisely the kind of a situation that had led to a banking panic under the pre-Federal-Reserve banking system, and to a concerted suspension of the convertibility of deposits into currency, as in 1907. Such a suspension was a drastic step and for a short while made matters worse. But it was also a therapeutic measure. It cut short the vicious cycle by preventing the spread of the contagion, by keeping the failure of a few banks from producing pressure on other banks and leading to CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM thefailure ofotherwisesound banks.
 
