So also did political freedom in the golden age of Greece and in the early days of the Roman era.
 
 History suggests only that capitalism is a necessary condition for politicalfreedom. Clearly it is not asufficientcondition. Fas cist Italy and Fascist Spain, Germany at various times in the last seventy years, Japan before World Wars I and II, tzarist Russiain the decades beforeWorldWar I- areall societiesthat cannot conceivably be described as politically free. Yet, in each, private enterprise was the dominant form of economic organ ization. It is therefore clearly possible to have economic ar rangements that are fundamentally capitalist and political arrangements that are not free.
 
 Even in those societies, the citizenry had a good deal more freedom than citizens of a modern totalitarian state like Russia or Nazi Germany, in which economic totalitarianism is com bined with political totalitarianism. Even in Russia under the Tzars, it was possible for some citizens, under some circum stances, to change their jobs without getting permission from politicalauthoritybecausecapitalismandtheexistenceofprivate property provided some check to the centralized power of the state.
 
 The relation between political and economicfreedom is com plexandbynomeansunilateral.Intheearlynineteenthcentury, Bentham and the Philosophical Radicals were inclined to re gard political freedom as a means to economic freedom. They believedthatthemasseswerebeinghamperedbytherestrictions thatwerebeingimposed upon them,and that ifpoliticalreform gave the bulk of the people the vote, they would do what was good for them, which was to vote for laissez faire. In retrospect, one cannot say that they were wrong. There was a large meas ure of political reform that was accompanied by economic re forminthedirectionofagreatdealoflaissezfaire. Anenormous increase in the well-being ofthe masses followed this change in economic arrangements.
 
 The triumph of Benthamite liberalism in nineteenth-century England wasfollowed by areaction to\vard increasing interven tion bygovernmentineconomicaffairs.This tendencytocollec tivism was greatly accelerated, both in England and elsewhere, by the two World Wars. Welfare rather than freedom be- EconomicFreedom andPoliticalFreedom II came the dominant note in democratic countries.
 
