As late as 1848, John Stuart Mill could write, "Hitherto [1848] it is questionable if all the mechanical inventions yet made have lightened the day's toil of any human being. They have enabled a greater population to live the same life of drudgery and imprisonment, and an in creased number of manufacturers and others to make fortunes.
 
 Theyhaveincreasedthecomfortsofthemiddleclasses.But they have not yet begun to effect those great changes in human des tiny, which it is in their nature and in their futurity to accom plish." This statement was probably not correct evenfor Mill's 1 day, but certainly no one could write this today about the ad vanced capitalist countries. It is still true about the rest of the world.
 
 The chiefcharacteristicofprogress and development over the past century is that it has freed the masses from backbreaking toil and has made available to them products and services that wereformerly themonopolyoftheupperclasses,withoutinany corresponding way expanding the products and services avail able to the wealthy. Medicine aside, the advances in technology have for the most part simply made available to the masses of the people luxuries that were always available in one form or another to the truly wealthy. Modern plumbing, central heat ing, automobiles, television, radio, to cite just a few examples, provide conveniences to the masses equivalent to those that the wealthy could always get by the use of servants, entertainers, andsoon.
 
 Detailed statistical evidence on these phenomena,in theform of meaningful and comparable distributions of income, is hard to come by, though such studies as have been made confirm the broad conclusions just outlined. Such statistical data, how ever,canbeextremelymisleading.They cannotsegregatediffer ences in income that are equalizing from those that are not.
 
 For example, the short working life of a baseball player means that the annual income during his active years must be much higher than in alternative pursuits open to him to make it equally attractive financially. But such a difference affects the figures in exactly the same way as any other difference in in1Principles of Political Economy (Ashley edition; London: Longmans, Green & Co., 1909), p. 751.
 
