And similarly, specialization of function and division of labor could not go very far if we had to continue to rely on the barter of product for product. In consequence, money has been introduced as a means of facilitating exchange, and of enabling the actsofpurchase and ofsale to be separated into two parts.
 
 Despite the important role of enterprises and of money in our actual economy, and despite the numerous and complex prob lemsthey raise,thecentralcharacteristicofthemarkettechnique of achieving co-ordination is fully displayed in the simple ex changeeconomythatcontainsneitherenterprisesnormoney.As in that simple model, so in the complex enterprise and money exchange economy, co-operation is strictly individual and vol untary provided: (a) that enterprises are private, so that the ultimate contracting parties are individuals and (h) that indi viduals are effectively free to enter or not to enter into any par ticular exchange, so that every transaction is strictly voluntary.
 
 It is far easier to state these provisos in general terms than to spell them out in detail, or to specify precisely the institutional arrangements most conducive to their maintenance. Indeed, much of technical economic literature is concerned with pre cisely these questions. The basic requisite is the maintenance of law and order to prevent physical coercion of one individual by another and to enforce contracts voluntarily entered into, thus giving substance to"private".Asidefrom this,perhaps the most difficult problems arise from monopoly- which inhibits effec tive freedom by denying individuals alternatives to the particu lar exchange- and from "neighborhood effects"- effects on third parties for which itis notfeasible to chargeor recompense them. These problems will be discussed in more detail in the following chapter.
 
 So long as effective freedom of exchange is maintained, the central feature of the market organization of economic activity is that it prevents one person from interfering with another in respect ofmostofhis activities. The consumer is protectedfrom coercionbytheseller becauseofthepresenceofothersellerswith whom he can deal. The seller is protected from coercion by the consumerbecause ofother consumers to whom he can sell. The employee is protected from coercion by the employer because of EconomicFreedomandPoliticalFreedom 15 other employers for whom he can work, and so on.
 
