It makes it all the harder for the exceptional few- and it is they who are the hope of the future- to rise above the poverty of their initial state.
 
 Another argument for nationalizing schooling is "technical monopoly." In small communities and rural areas, the number of children may be too small to justify more than one school of reasonable size, so that competition cannot be relied on to protect the interests of parents and children. As in other cases of technical monopoly, the alternatives are unrestricted private monopoly, state-controlled private monopoly, and public op eration—a choice among evils. This argument, though clearly valid and significant, has been greatly weakened in recent decades by improvements in transportation and increasing con centration of the population in urban communities.
 
 The arrangement that perhaps comes closest to being justi fied by these considerations- at least for primary and second ary education- is a combination of public and private schools.
 
 Parents who choose to send their children to private schools would be paid a sum equal to the estimated cost of educating a child in a public school, provided that at least this sum was spent on education in an approved school. This arrangement would meet thevalidfeatures ofthe"technicalmonopoly" argu ment. It would meet the just complaints of parents that if they send their children to private non-subsidized schools they are required to pay twice for education- once in the form of gen eral taxes and once directly. It would permit competition to develop. The development and improvement of all schools would thus be stimulated. The injection of competition would do much to promote a healthy variety of schools. It would do much, also, to introduce flexibility into school systems. Notleast of its benefits would be to make the salaries of school teachers responsive tomarketforces. Itwould therebygivepublicauthor ities an independent standard against which to judge salary scales and promote a more rapid adjustment to changes in conditionsofdemand and supply.
 
 It is widely urged that the great need in schooling is more money to build more facilities and to pay higher salaries to teachers in order to attract better teachers. This seems a false diagnosis. The amount of money spent on schooling has been 94 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM rising at an extraordinarily high rate, far faster than our total income.
 
