These all reduce to cases in which strictly voluntary exchange is either exceedingly costly or practically impossible. There are two general classes of such cases: monopoly and similar market imperfections, and neigh borhood effects.
 
 Exchange is truly voluntary only when nearly equivalent al ternativesexist.Monopolyimpliestheabsenceofalternativesand thereby inhibits effective freedom of exchange. In practice, monopoly frequently, if not generally, arises from government support or from collusive agreements among individuals. With respectto these, theproblemis eitherto avoidgovernmentalfos tering of monopoly or to stimulate the effective enforcement of rules such as those embodied in our anti-trust laws. However, monopolymayalsoarisebecauseitistechnicallyefficienttohave a single producer or enterprise. I venture to suggest that such cases are more limitedthan is supposed butthey unquestionably doarise. A simple exampleisperhapstheprovisionoftelephone services within a community. I shall refer to such cases as "tech nical" monopoly.
 
 When technical conditions make amonopoly the natural out come of competitive mark:et forces, there are only three alterna tivesthatseemavailable:privatemonopoly, publicmonopoly,or public regulation. All three are bad so we must choose among evils. Henry Simons, observing public regulation of monopoly in the United States,found the results so distasteful thathe con cluded public monopoly would be a lesser evil. Walter Eucken, a noted German liberal, observing public monopoly in German railroads, found the results so distasteful that he concluded public regulation would be a lesser evil. Having learned from both, I reluctantly conclude that, if tolerable, private monopoly may be the least of the evils.
 
 If society were static so that the conditions which give rise to a technical monopoly were sure to remain, I would have little confidence in this solution. In a rapidly changing society, how ever, the conditions making for technical monopoly frequently change and I suspect that both public regulation and public monopoly are likely to be less responsive to sucllchanges in con ditions, to be less readily capable of elimination, than private monopoly.
 
