" My contribution consisted of an extensive quotation from Capitalism and Freedom a briefer one from Adam Smith, and a closing in j vitation: "Welcome aboard."l Even in 1978, of the 25 con tributors to the symposium other than myself, only 9 ex pressed views that could be classified as sympathetic to the central message of Capitalism and Freedom.
 
 The change in the climate of opinion was produced by experience, not by theory or philosophy. Russia and China, once the great hopes of the intellectual classes, had clearly gone sour. Great Britian, whose Fabian socialism exercised a dominant influence on American intellectuals, was in deep trouble. Closer to home, the intellectuals, always devotees of big government and by wide majorities supporters of the na tional Democratic party, had been disillusioned by the Vietnam War, particularly the role played by Presidents Ken nedy andJohnson. Many ofthe great reform programs-such guidons of the past as welfare, public housing, support of trade unions, integration ofschools, federal aid to education, affirmative action-were turning to ashes. As with the rest of the population, their pocketbooks were being hit with infla tion and high taxes. These phenomena, not the persuasive ness of the ideas expressed in books dealing with principles, explain the transition from the overwhelming defeat ofBarry Goldwater in 1964 to the overwhelming victory of Ronald Reagan in 1980-twomen with essentially the sameprogram and the same message.
 
 Whatthen is the role ofbooks such as this? Twofold, in my opinion. First, to provide subject matter for bull sessions. As we wrote in the Preface to Free to Choose: "The only person who can truly persuade you is yourself. You must turn the issues over in your mind at leisure, consider the many argu ments, let them simmer, and after a long time turn yourpref erences into convictions." Second, and more basic, to keep options open until circum stances make change necessary. There is enormous inertia-a Commentary, April 1978, pp. 29-71.
 
 1 XIV CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM tyranny of the status quo-in private and especially gov ernmental arrangements.
 
