Literally millions of people are involved in providing one another with their daily bread, let alone with their yearly automobiles. The challenge to the believer in liberty is to recon cile this widespread interdependence with individual freedom.
 
 Fundamentally, there are only two ways of co-ordinating the economicactivitiesofmillions.Oneiscentraldirectioninvolving theuseofcoercion- thetechnique ofthearmy and ofthe mod ern totalitarian state. The other is voluntary co-operation of in...
 
 dividuals- the technique of the market place.
 
 The possibility of co-ordination through voluntary co-opera...
 
 tion rests on the elementary- yet frequently denied- proposi tion that both parties to an economic transaction benefit from it, provided the transaction is bi-laterally voluntary and informed.
 
 Exchange can therefore bring about co-ordinationwithout co ercion. A working model of a society organized through volun tary exchange. is a tree private enterprise exchange economy what we have been calling competitive capitalism.
 
 In its simplest form, such a society consists of a number of independent households- a collection of Robinson Crusoes, as itwere. Each household uses theresources it controls to produce goods and services that it exchanges for goods and services pro...
 
 duced by other households, on terms mutually acceptable to the two parties to the bargain. It is thereby enabled to satisfy its wants indirectly by producing goods and services for others, ra...
 
 ther than directly by producing goods for its own immediate use. The incentive for adopting this indirect route is, of course, theincreasedproductmadepossiblebydivisionoflaborandspe cialization of function. Since the household always has the alternativeof producingdirectly for itself, it need not enter into anyexchangeunless itbenefitsfrom it. Hence,noexchangewill take placeunless both parties do benefitfrom it. Co-operation is thereby achieved without coercion.
 
 Specialization offunction and division of labor would not go far if the ultimate productive unit were the household. In a modern society, we have gone much farther. We have intro duced enterprises which are intermediaries between individuals 14 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM in their capacities as suppliers of service and as purchasers of goods.
 
