Social security measures were enacted to make receipt of as sistance a matter of right, to eliminate the need for direct relief and assistance. Millions now receive social securitybenefits. Yet the relief rolls grow and the sums spent on direct assistance mount.
 
 The listcaneasilybelengthened: the silverpurchaseprogram of the 1930's, public power projects, foreign aid programs of the post-war years, F.C.C., urban redevelopment programs, the stockpiling program- these and many more have had effects very different and generally quite oppositefrom those intended.
 
 There have been someexceptions. The expressways crisscross ing the country, magnificent dams spanning great rivers, orbit ing satellites are all tributes to the capacity of government to command great resources. The schoolsystem,with all itsdefects and problems, with all the possibility of improvement through bringing into more effective play the forces of the market, has widened the opportunities available to American youth and contributed to the extension offreedom. It is a testament to the public-spirited efforts of the many tens of thousands who have served on local school boards and to the willingness of the pub lic to bear heavy taxes for what they regarded as a public pur pose. The Sherman antitrust laws, with all their problems of detailed administration, have by their very existence fostered competition. Public health measures have contributed to the re duction of infectious disease. Assistance measures have relieved suffering and distress. Local authorities have often provided fa cilities essential to the life of communities. Law and order have been maintained, though in many a large city the performance of even this elementary function of government has been far from satisfactory. As a citizen of Chicago, I speak feelingly.
 
 Ifabalance be struck, there can belittledoubtthat the record is dismal. The greater part of the new ventures undertaken by government in the pastfew decades have failed to achieve their objectives. The United States has continued to progress; its citi zens have become better fed, better clothed, better housed, and better transported; class and social distinctions have narrowed; minority groups have become less disadvantaged; popular cul- 200 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM ture has advanced by leaps and bounds.
 
