16 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM nomic strength to be at the expense ofexisting centers. Political power,ontheotherhand,ismoredifficulttodecentralize.There can be numerous small independent governments. But it is far moredifficulttomaintain numerous equipotentsmall centers of political power in a single large government than it is to have numerous centers of economic strength in a single large econ omy. There can be many millionaires in one large economy.
 
 But can there be more than one really outstanding leader, one person on whom the energies and enthusiasms of his country men are centered? If the central government gains power, it is likely to be at the expense oflocal governments. There seems to be something like a fixed total of political power to be distrib uted. Consequently, if economic power is joined to political power, concentration seems almost inevitable. On the other hand,if economicpoweris keptinseparatehandsfrom political power, it can serve as a check and a counter to political power.
 
 The force of this abstract argument can perhaps best be dem onstrated by example. Let us consider first, a hypothetical ex ample that may help to bring out the principles involved, and thensomeactualexamplesfrom recentexperiencethat illustrate the way in which the market works to preserve political free dom.
 
 Onefeature ofafree society is surelythe freedom ofindividu als to advocate and propagandizeopenlyfor aradical change in thestructureofthesociety- solongastheadvocacyis restricted to persuasion and does not include force or otherforms of coer cion. It is a mark of the political freedom of a capitalist society that men can openly advocate and work for socialism. Equally, politicalfreedom inasocialistsocietywould requirethatmen be free to advocate the introduction of capitalism. How could the freedom to advocate capitalism be preserved and protected in a socialist society?
 
 In orderfor men to advocate anything, they must in the first place be able to earn a living. This already raises a problem in a socialist society, since all jobs are under the direct control of political authorities. It would take an act of self-denial whose difficulty is underlined by experience in the United States after World War II with the problem of "security" among Federal EconomicFreedom andPoliticalFreedom employees,for a socialist government to permit its employees to advocate policies directly contrary to official doctrine.
 
