180 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM Even so, "urban blight" is still with us in undiminished force, to judge by the growing pressure for federal funds to deal with it.
 
 Another gain its proponents expected from public housing was the reduction of juvenile delinquency by improving hous ing conditions. Here again, the program in many instances had precisely the opposite effect, entirely asidefrom itsfailure toim prove averagehousing conditions.The income limitations quite properly imposed for the occupancy of public housing at subsi dizedrentalshaveledtoaveryhighdensityof"broken"families - in particular, divorced or widowed mothers with children.
 
 Childrenofbrokenfamilies areespeciallylikelytobe"problem" children and a high concentration of such children is likely to increase juvenile delinquency. One manifestation has been the very adverse effect on schools in the neighborhood of a public housing project. Whereas a school can readily absorb a few "problem" children it is very difficult for it to absorb a large number. Yet in some cases, broken families are a third or more of the total in a public housing project and the project may account for a majority of the children in the school. Had these families been assisted through cash grants, they would have been spread much more thinly through the community.
 
 2. Minimum wage laws Minimum wage laws are about as clear a case as one can find of a measure the effects of which are precisely the opposite of those intended by the men of good will who support it. Many proponents of minimum wage laws quite properly deplore extremely low rates; they regard them as a sign of poverty; and they hope, by outlawing wage rates below some specified level, to reduce poverty. In fact, insofar as minimum wage laws have any effect at all, their effect is clearly to increase poverty. The state can legislate a minimum wage rate. It can hardly require employers to hire at that minimum all who were formerly employed at wages below the mini mum. It is clearly not in the interest of employers to do so.
 
 The effect of the minimum wage is therefore to make unem ployment higher than it otherwise would be. Insofar as the low wage rates are in fact a sign of poverty, the people who are rendered unemployed are precisely those who can least afford Social Welfare Measures 181 to give up the income they had been receiving, small as it may appear to the people voting for the minimum wage.
 
