I do not mean to conclude that the public school system was definitely preferable to the alternative, but only that a far stronger case could have been made for it then than now. Our problem today is not to enforce conformity; it is rather that we are threatened with an excess of conformity. Our problem is to foster diversity, and the alternative would do this far more effectively than a nationalized school system.
 
 Another factor that may have been important a century ago was the combination of the general disrepute of cash grants to individuals ("handouts"), with the absence of an efficient ad ministrative machinery to handle the distribution of vouchers and check their use. Such machinery is a phenomenon ofmod ern times that has come tofull flower with the enormousexten sion of personal taxation and of social security programs. In its absence, the administration of schools may have been re garded as the only possible way to finance education.
 
 As some of the examples cited above (England and France) suggest, some features of the proposed arrangements are pres ent in existing educational systems. And there has been strong and, I believe, increasing pressure for arrangements of this kind in most Western countries. This is perhaps partly ex plained by modern developments in governmental adminis trative machinery that facilitate such arrangements.
 
 Although many administrative problems would arise in changing over from the present to the proposed system and in its administration, these seem neither insoluble nor unique. As in the denationalization of other activities, existing premises and equipment could be sold to private enterprises that wanted to enter the field. Thus, there would be no waste of capital in the transition. Since governmental units, at least in some areas, would continue to administer schools, the transition would be gradual and easy. The local administration of schooling in the United States and some other countries would similarly facili tate the transition, since it would encourage experimentation on a small scale. Difficulties would doubtless arise in determin ing eligibility for grants from a particular governmental unit, but this is identical with the existing problem of determining 98 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM which unit is obligated to provide schoolingfacilities for a par ticular child.
 
