OccupationalLicensure 149 Certification is much less harmful in this respect. If the certi fied "abuse" their special certificates; if, in certifying new comers, members of the trade impose unnecessarily stringent requirements and reduce the number ofpractitioners too much, the price differential between certified and non-certified will become sufficiently large to induce the public to use non-certi fied practitioners. In technical terms, the elasticity of demand for the services of certified practitioners will be fairly large, and the limits within which they can exploit the rest of the public by taking advantage of their special position will be rather narrow.
 
 In consequence, certification without licensure is a half-way house that maintains agood deal ofprotection against monopo lization. It also has its disadvantages, but it is worth noting that the usual arguments for licensure, and in particular the pater nalistic arguments, are satisfied almost entirely by certification alone. If the argumentis that weare too ignorant to judgegood practitioners, all that is needed is to make the relevant infor mation available. If, in full knowledge, we still want to go to someone who is not certified, that is our business; we cannot complain that we did not have the information. Since argu ments for licensure made by people who are not members of the occupation can be satisfied so fully by certification, I per sonally find it difficult to see any casefor which licensure rather than certification can be justified.
 
 Evenregistrationhas significantsocialcosts.Itisanimportant first step in the direction of a system in which every individual has to carry an identity card, every individual has to inform authorities what he plans to do before he does it. Moreover, as already noted, registration tends to be the first step toward certification and licensure.
 
 MEDICAL LICENSURE The medical profession is one in which practice of the pro fession has for a long time been restricted to people with licenses. Offhand, the question, "Ought we to let incompetent physicians practice?" seems to admit ofonly anegative answer.
 
 But I want to urge that second thought may give pause.
 
