That book was reviewed by every majorpublication,frequently in a featured, lengthy review. It was not only partly reprinted in Book Di gest, butalso featured on the cover. Free to Choose sold some u.s.
 
 400,000 hardcovercopies in the in its first year, has been translated into twelve foreign languages, and was issued in early 1981 as a mass-market paperback.
 
 The difference in reception of the two books cannot, we believe, be explained by a difference in quality. Indeed, the earlier book is the more philosophical and abstract, and hence more fundamental. Free to Choose, as we said in its Preface, has "more nuts and bolts, less theoretical framework." It complements, rather than replaces, CapitalismandFreedom. Ona superficiallevel, the difference in reception can be attributed to the power oftelevision. Free to Choose was based on and designed to accompany our PBS series ofthe same name, and there can be little doubt that the success of the TV series gave prominence to the book.
 
 That explanation is superficial because the existence and success ofthe TV program itselfis testimony to the change in the intellectual climate. We were never approached in the 1960s to do a TV series like Free to Choose. There would have been few ifany sponsors for such a program. If, by any chance, such aprogramhad beenproduced, therewould have been no significant audience receptive to its views. No, the different reception ofthe later book and thesuccess ofthe TV series are common consequences ofthe change in the climate ofopinion. Theideas in ourtwo books are still far from being in the intellectual mainstream, but they are now, at least, respectable in the intellectual community and very likely al most conventional among the broader public.
 
 The change in the climate ofopinion was not produced by this book or the many others, such as Hayek's Road to Serf dom and Constitution ofLiberty, in the same philosophical tradition. For evidenceofthat, itis enough to pointto the call for contributions to the symposium Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy issued by the editors of Commentary in Preface, I982 XIU 1978, which went in part: "The idea that there may be an inescapable connection between capitalism and democracy has recently begun to seem plausible to a number ofintellec tuals who once would have regarded such a view not only as wrong but even as politically dangerous.
 
