6 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM against which classical liberalism fought. In the very act of turning the clock back to seventeenth-century mercantilism, he is fond ofcastigating true liberals as reactionary!
 
 The change in the meaning attached to the term liberalism is more striking in economic matters than in political. The twen tieth-century liberal, like the nineteenth-century liberal, favors parliamentary institutions, representative government, civil rights, and soon. Yet even in political matters, thereis anotable difference. Jealous of liberty, and hence fearful of centralized power, whether in governmental or private hands, the nine teenth-century liberal favored political decentralization. Com mitted to action and confident of the beneficence of power so long as it is in the hands of a government ostensibly controlled bytheelectorate,the twentieth-century liberalfavors centralized government. He will resolve any doubt about where power should be located in favor of the state instead of the city, of the federal governmentinsteadofthestate,andofaworldorganiza tion instead ofanational government.
 
 Because of the corruption of the term liberalism, the views thatformerly went under that name are now often labeled con servatism. But this is not a satisfactory alternative. The nine teenth-century liberal was a radical, both in the etymological senseofgoingtotherootofthematter,and inthepolitical sense of favoring major changes in social institutions. So too must be his modern heir. We do not wish to conserve the state interven tions that have interfered so greatly with our freedom, though, of course, we do wish to conserve those that have promoted it, Moreover, in practice, the term conservatism has come to cover so wide a range of views, and views so incompatible with one another, that we shall no doubt see the growth of hyphenated designations, such as libertarian-conservative and aristocratic conservative.
 
 Partly because ofmy reluctance to surrender the term to pro ponents of measures that would destroy liberty, partly because I cannotfind a better alternative, I shall resolve these difficulties by using the word liberalism in its original sense- as the doc trines pertaining to a free man.
 
