GOVERNMENT MEASURES USED TO ALTER THE DISTRIBUTION OF INCOME The methods that governments have used most widely to alter the distribution of income have been graduated income and inheritance taxation. Before consideringtheir desirability,it is worth asking whether they have succeeded in their aim.
 
 No conclusive answer can be given to this question with our present knowledge. The judgment that follows is a personal, though I hope not utterly uninformed, opinion, stated,for sake of brevity, more dogmatically than the nature of the evidence justifies. My impression is that these tax measures have had a relatively minor, though not negligible, effect in the direction of narrowing the differences between the average position of groups of families classified by some statistical measures of income. However, they have also introduced essentially arbi trary inequalities of comparable magnitude between persons within such income classes. As a result, it is by no means clear whether the net effect in terms of the basic objective ofequality of treatment or equality of outcome has been to increase or de creaseequality.
 
 The tax rates are on paper both high and highly graduated.
 
 But their effect has been dissipated in two different ways. First, part oftheir effecthas been simply to make the pre-tax distribu tion more unequal.This is the usual incidence effectoftaxation.
 
 By discouraging entry into activities highly taxed- in this case activities with large risk and non-pecuniary disadvantages they raise returns in those activities. Second, they have stimu lated both legislative and other provisions to evade the tax so-called "loopholes" in the law such as percentage depletion, exemption of interest on state and municipal bonds, specially favorable treatment of capital gains, expense accounts, other in direct ways of payment, conversion of ordinary income to capi tal gains, and soon in bewilderingnumberand kind.The effect has been to make the actual rates imposed far lower than the nominal rates and, perhaps more important, to make the inci- TheDistribution ofIncome 173 dence of the taxes capricious and unequal.
 
