Monopoly andSocialResponsibility 135 Price controls, whether legal or voluntary, if effectively en forced would eventually lead to the destruction of the free enterprise system and its replacement by a centrally controlled system. And it would not even be effective in preventing infla tion. History offers ample evidence that what determines the average level of prices and wages is the amount of money in the economy and not the greediness of businessmen or ofwork ers. Governments ask for the self-restraint of business and labor because of their inability to manage their own affairs- which includes the control of money- and the natural human tend ency to pass the buck.
 
 One topic in the area of social responsibility that I feel duty bound to touch on, because it affects my own personal interests, has been the claim that business should contribute to the sup port of charitable activities and especially to universities. Such givingbycorporationsisan inappropriateuseofcorporatefunds in a free-enterprise society.
 
 The corporation is an instrument of the stockholders who own it. If the corporation makes a contribution, it prevents the individual stockholder from himself deciding how he should dispose of his funds. With the corporation tax and the deducti bility of contributions, stockholders may of course want the corporation to make a gift on their behalf, since this would enable them to make a larger gift. The best solution would be the abolition of the corporate tax. But so long as there is a cor porate tax, there is no justification for permitting deductions for contributionsto charitableand educationalinstitutions.Such contributions should be made by the individuals who are the ultimate owners of property in our society.
 
 People who urge extension of the deductibility of this kind of corporate contribution in the name of free enterprise are fundamentally working against their own interest. A major complaint made frequently against modern business is that it involves the separation of ownersllip and control-that the corporation has become a social institution that is a law unto itself, with irresponsible executives who do not serve the interests of their stockholders. This charge is not true. But the direction in which policy is now moving, of permitting corpo rations to make contributions for charitable purposes and al- 136 CAPITALISM AND FREED0M lowing deductions for income tax, is a step in the direction of creating a true divorce between ownership and control and of undermining the basic nature and character of our society.
 
