XVi CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM lowe the philosophy expressed in this book and much of its detail to many teachers, colleagues, and friends, above all to a distinguished group I have been privileged to be associated with at the University of Chicago: Frank H. Knight, Henry C.
 
 Simons, Lloyd W. Mints, Aaron Director, Friedrich A. Hayek, J.
 
 George Stigler. I ask their pardon for my failure to acknowl edge specifically the many ideas of theirs which they will find expressed in this book. I have learned so much from them and what I have learned has become so much a part of my own thoughtthat I would not knowhow to selectpoints to footnote.
 
 I dare not try to list the many others to whom I am indebted, lest I do some an injustice by inadvertently omitting their names. But I cannot refrain from mentioning my children, Janet and David, whose willingness to accept nothing on faith has forced me to express technical matters in simple language and thereby improved both my understanding of the points and, hopefully, my exposition. I hasten to add that they too accept only responsibility, not identity of views.
 
 I have drawn freely from material already published. Chap ter i is a revision of material published earlier under the title used for this book in Felix Morley (ed.), Essays in Individual ity (University of Pennsylvania Press, 1958) and in still a different form under the same title in The New Individualist Review, Vol. I, NO.1 (April, 1961). Chapter vi is a revision of an article by the same title first published in Robert A. Solo (ed.), Economics and the Public Interest (Rutgers University Press, 1955). Bits and pieces of other chapters have been taken from various of my articles and books.
 
 The refrain, "But for my wife, this book would not have been written," has become a commonplace in academic pref aces. In this case, it happens to be the literal truth. She pieced together the scraps of the various lectures, coalesced different versions, translated lectures into something more closely ap proaching written English, and has throughout been the driv ing force in getting the book finished. The acknowledgment on the title page is an understatement.
 
 My secretary, Muriel A. Porter, has been an efficient and de pendable resource in time of need, and I am very much in her debt. She typed most of the manuscript as well as many earlier drafts of part of it.
 
