The requirement can thus gener ally be enforced without government subsidy. Tile separation of a child from a parent who cannot pay for the minimum required schooling is clearly inconsistent wit}l our reliance on the family as the basic social unit and our belief in the freedo.m of the individual. Moreover, it would be very likely to detract from his education for citizenship in a free society..
 
 If the financial burden imposed by such a schoolin.g require ment could readily be met by the great bulk of t.he farrlilies in a community, it might still be both feasible and desirable to require the parents to meet the cost directly. Extreme cases could be handled by special subsidy provisions for needy fami lies. There are many areas in the United States today \vhere these conditions are satisfied. In these areas, it would be highly desirable to impose the costs directly on the parents. This would eliminate the governmental machinery now required to collecttax funds from all residents during the whole of their lives and then pay it back mostly to the same people during the period when their children are in school. It would reduce the likelihood that governments would also administer schools, a matter discussed further below. It would increase the likeli hood that the subsidy component of school expenditures would decline as the need for such subsidies declined with increasing general levels of income. If, as now, the government pays for all or most schooling, a rise in income simply leads to a still larger circular flow of funds through the tax mechanism, and an expansion in the role of the government. Finally, but by no means least, imposing the costs on the parents would tend to equalize the social and private costs of having children and so promote a better distribution of families by size.!
 
 Differences among families in resources and in number of children, plus the imposition of a standard of schooling in volving very sizable costs, make such a policy hardly feasible in many parts of the United States. Both in such areas, and in 1It is by no means so fantastic as may appear that such a step would noticeably affect the size of families. For example, one explanation of the lower birth rate among higher than among lower socia-economic groups may well be that children are relatively more expensive to the former, thanks in considerable measure to the higher standards of schooling they maintain, the costs of which they bear.
 
