Or that I must pay him to refrain from flying over it? The mere mention of royal ties,copyrights,patents;sharesofstockin corporations;riparian rights,and thelike,mayperhapsemphasizethe roleofgenerally accepted social rules in the very definition of property. It may suggest also that, in many cases, the existence of awell specified and generally accepted definition of property is far more im portant than just what the definition is.
 
 Another economic area that raises particularly difficult prob lems is the monetary system. Government responsibility for the monetary system has long been recognized. It is explicitly pro vided for in the constitutional provision which gives Congress the power "to coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign coin."Thereisprobablyno other areaofeconomicactiv ity with respect to which government action has been so uni formly accepted. This habitual and by now almost unthinking acceptance of governmental responsibility makes thorough un derstanding of the grounds for such responsibility ali the more necessary, since it enhances the danger that the scope ofgovern ment will spread from activities that are, to those that are not, appropriate in a free society,from providing a monetary frame work to determining the allocation ofresources among individ uals. We shalldiscuss this problem in detail in chapter iii.
 
 In summary, the organization of economic activity through voluntary exchange presumes that we have provided, through government, for the maintenance of law and order to prevent coercion of one individual by another, the enforcement of con tracts voluntarily entered into, the definition of the meaning of property rights, the interpretation and enforcement of such rights, and the provision of a monetary framework.
 
 ACTION THROUGH GOVERNMENTON GROUNDS OF TECHNICAL MONOPOLY AND NEIGHBORHOOD EFFECTS Theroleofgovernmentjustconsideredistodosomethingthat the market cannot do for itself, namely, to determine, arbitrate, and enforce the rules of the game. We may also want to do through government some things that might conceivably be donethroughthemarketbutthat technicalorsimilarconditions CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM render it difficult to do in that way.
 
