A by-product is inevitably a retesting of theprinciplesandasharpeningofourunderstandingofthem.
 
 It is extremely convenient to have a label for the political and economic viewpoint elaborated in this book. The rightful and proper label is liberalism. Unfortunately, "As a supreme, if un intended compliment, the enemies of the system of private en terprise have thought it wise to appropriate its label",1 so that liberalismhas,intheUnitedStates,cometohaveaverydifferent meaning than it did in the nineteenth century or does today overmuchofthe ContinentofEurope.
 
 As it developed in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, the intellectual movement that went under the name of liberalism emphasized freedom as the ultimate goal and the individual as the ultimate entity in the society. Itsupported lais sez faire at home as a means of reducing the role of the state in economic affairs and thereby enlarging the role of the individ ual; it supported free trade abroad as a means of linking the nations of the world together peacefully and democratically. In political matters, it supported the development ofrepresentative government and of parliamentary institutions, reduction in the arbitrarypowerofthe state,and protection ofthe civilfreedoms of individuals.
 
 Beginning in the late nineteenth century, and especially after 1930 in the United States, the term liberalism came to be associ ated with a very different emphasis, particularly in economic policy.Itcametobe associatedwithareadiness torely primarily on the state rather than on private voluntary arrangements to achieveobjectivesregarded as desirable.Thecatchwordsbecame welfare and equality rather than freedom. The nineteenth century liberal regarded an extension of freedom as the most effective way to promote welfare and equality; the twentieth century liberal regards welfare and equality as either prerequi sites of or alternatives to freedom. In the name of welfare and equality, the twentieth-century liberal has come to favor a re vival of the very policies of state intervention and paternalism 1Joseph Schumpeter, History of Economic Analysis (New York: Oxford Uni versity Press, 1954) p. 394.
 
