S. securi ties that can be readily sold for dollars. At any time, the holders of these balances can start a run on the u.S. Treasury by trying to convert their dollar balances into gold. This is precisely what happened in the fall of 1960, and what is very likely to happen again at some unpredictable date in the future (perhaps before this is printed).
 
 The two problems are related in two ways. In the first place, as for a bank, income account difficulties are a major source of u.s.
 
 loss of confidence in the ability of the to honor its prom u.s.
 
 ise to sell gold at $35 an ounce. The fact that the has in effect been having to borrow abroad in order to achieve balance on current account is a major reason why holders of dollars are interested in converting them into gold or other curren cies. In the second place, the fixed price of gold is the device we have adopted for pegging another set of prices- the price of the dollar in terms of foreign currencies- and flows of gold are the device we have adopted for resolving ex ante discrep ancies in thebalanceofpayments.
 
 ALTERNATIVE MECHANISMS FOR ACHIEVING BALANCE IN FOREIGNPAYMENTS We can get more light on both ofthese relations by consider ing what alternative mechanisms are available for achieving balance in payments- the first and in many ways the more fundamental ofthe two problems.
 
 Suppose that the U.S. is roughly in balance in its interna tional payments and that something comes along which alters the situation by, let us say, reducing the number ofdollars that foreigners want to buy compared to the number that U.S. resi dents want to sell; or, looking at it from the other side, in creasing the amount of foreign currency that holders of dol lars want to buy compared to the amount that holders of foreign currency want to sell for dollars. That is, something threatens to produce a "deficit" in U.S. payments. This might result from increased efficiency in production abroad or de creased efficiency at home, increased foreign aid expenditures International Trade Arrangements 63 by u.
 
