In judging the desirability of graduated income taxation it seems to me important to distinguish two problems, even though the distinction cannot be precise in application: first, the raising of funds to finance the expenses of those govern mental activities it is decided to undertake (including perhaps measures to eliminate poverty discussed in chapter xii);second, the imposition of taxes for redistributive purposes alone. The former might well call for some measure of graduation, both on grounds ofassessing costs in accordance with benefitsand on grounds ofsocial standardsofequity.Butthepresenthighnom inal rates on top brackets of income and inheritance can hardly bejustifiedonthis ground- ifonlybecausetheiryieldissolow.
 
 I find ithard,asaliberal,toseeany justificationfor graduated taxation solely to redistribute income. This seems aclear case of using coercion to take from some in order to give to others and thus to conflict head-on with individual freedom.
 
 All things considered, the personal income tax structure that seemstomebestis a flat-rate taxonincomeaboveanexemption, with income defined very broadly and deductions allowed only for strictly defined expenses of earning income. As already sug gested inchapter v,Iwouldcombinethisprogramwiththeabo litionofthecorporateincometax,andwiththerequirementthat corporations be required to attribute their income to stock holders, and that stockholders be required to includesuch sums on their tax returns. The most important other desirable changes are the elimination of percentage depletion on oil and other raw materials, the elimination of tax exemption of inter est on state and local securities, the elimination of special treat ment of capital gains, the co—ordination of income, estate, and gift taxes, and the elimination of numerous deductions now allowed.
 
 Anexemption,itseemstome,canbeajustifieddegreeofgrad uation (see further discussion in chapter xii). It is very differ..
 
 ent for 90 per cent ofthe population to vote taxes on themselves and an exemption for 10 per cent than for 90 per cent to vote punitive taxes on the other 10per cent- which is in effectwhat TheDistribution ofIncome 175 has been done in the United States.
 
