If it goes so far as to touch an issue on which men feel deeply yet differently, it may well disrupt the society.
 
 Fundamental differences in basic values can seldom if ever be resolved at the ballot box; ultimately they can only be decided, though not resolved, by conflict. The religious and civil wars of history are a bloody testament to this judgment.
 
 The widespread use of the market reduces the strain on the social fabric by rendering conformity unnecessary with respect toanyactivities itencompasses.Thewider therangeofactivities covered by the market, the fewer are the issues on which ex plicitly political decisions are required and hence on which it is necessary to achieve agreement. In turn, the fewer the issues on which agreement is necessary, the greater is the likelihood of gettingagreementwhilemaintainingafree society.
 
 Unanimity is, of course, an ideal. In practice, we can afford neitherthe time northe effortthatwould berequired to achieve complete unanimity on every issue. We must perforce accept something less. Weare thus led to accept majority rule in one formoranotherasanexpedient.Thatmajority ruleisanexpedi ent rather than itself a basic principle is clearly shown by the fact that our willingness to resort to majority rule, and the size of the majority we require, themselves depend on the seri ousness of the issue involved. If the matter is of little moment and the minority has no strong feelings about being overruled, a bare plurality will suffice. On the other hand, if the minority feels strongly about the issue involved, even abare majority will notdo. Fewofus would bewillingtohave issues offree speech, for example, decided by a bare majority. Our legal structure is full of such distinctions among kinds of issues that require dif ferent kinds of majorities. At the extreme are those issues em bodied in the Constitution. These are the principles that are so important that we are willing to make minimal concessions to expediency. Something like essential consensus was achieved initiallyin acceptingthem,andwerequire somethinglike essen tial consensus for a change in them.
 
 The self-denying ordinance to refrain from majority rule on certain kinds of issues that is embodied in our Constitution and in similar written or unwritten constitutions elsewhere, and the specificprovisionsin theseconstitutionsortheir equivalentspro- Governmentin aFreeSociety 25 hibiting coercion of individuals, are themselves to be regarded as reached by free discussion and as reHecting essential una nimityabout means.
 
