In addi tion, they provide still a different class of problems to which we can apply the principles developed in the first two chapters.
 
 I shall discuss first the general problem and then a particular example, restrictionsonthepracticeofmedicine. Thereasonfor choosingmedicineisthatitseemsdesirable to discusstherestric tions for which the strongest case can be made- there is not much to be learned by knocking down straw men. I suspect that most people, possibly even most liberals, believe that it is desirable to restrict the practice of medicine to people who are licensed bythestate. Iagreethatthecaseforlicensureisstronger for medicine than for most other fields. Yet the conclusions I shall reach are that liberal principles do not justify licensure even in medicine and that in practice the results of state licen sure in medicine have been undesirable.
 
 UBIQUITY OF GOVERNMENTAL RESTRICTIONS ON ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES MEN MAY ENGAGE IN Licensureis aspecial caseofamuchmoregeneraland exceed ingly widespread phenomenon, namely, edicts that individuals may not engage in particular economic activities except under conditions laid down by a constituted authority of the state.
 
 Medieval guilds were a particular example of an explicit system for specifying which individuals should be permitted to follow particular pursuits. The Indian caste system is another example.
 
 To a considerable extent in the caste system, to a lesser extent in the guilds, the restrictions were enforced by general social customs rather than explicitly by government.
 
 A widespread notion about the caste system is that every per son's occupation is completely determined by the caste into which he is born. It is obvious to an economist that this is an impossible system, since it prescribes a rigid distribution of per sons among occupations determined entirely by birthrates and not at all by conditions of demand. Of course, this is not the way the system worked. What was true, and to some measure still is, was that a limited number of occupations were reserved to members of certain castes, but not every member of those Occupational Licensure 139 castes followed those occupations.
 
