So much could have been said in the abstract, in advance of actual experience with public housing. Now that we have had experience, we can gomuch farther. In practice,publichousing has turned out to have effects very different indeed from those intended.
 
 Farfrom improvingthehousingofthepoor, asitsproponents expected, public housing has done just the reverse. The number of dwelling units destroyed in the course of erecting public housing projects has been far larger than the number of new dwellingunits constructed. Butpublichousing as such has done nothing to reduce the number of persons to be housed. The effect of public housing has therefore been to raise the number of persons per dwelling unit. Some families have probably been betterhoused than theywouldotherwisehavebeen- thosewho were fortunate enough to get occupancy of the publicly built units. But this has only made the problem for the rest all the worse, since the average density of all together went up.
 
 Of course, private enterprise offset some of the deleterious effect of the public housing program by conversion of existing quarters and construction of new ones for either the persons directly displaced or, more generally, the persons displaced at oneortworemovesinthegameofmusicalchairssetinmotion by the public housing projects. However, theseprivate resources would have been available in the absence of the public housing program.
 
 Why did the public housing program have this effect? For the general reasonwe have stressed time and again.Thegeneral interest that motivated many to favor instituting the program is diffuse and transitory. Once the program was adopted, it was bound to be dominated by the special interests that it could serve. In this case, the special interests were those local groups that were anxious to have blighted areas cleared and refur bished, either because they owned property there or because the blight was threatening local or central business districts. Public housing served as a convenient means to accomplish their ob jective, which required more destruction than construction.
 
