The Control ofMoney 41 monetary framework without the danger of the irresponsible exerciseofmonetarypowers. If,for example,anhonest-to-good ness gold standard, in which 100 per cent of the money in a country consisted literally of gold, were widely backed by the public at large, imbued with the mythology of a gold standard and with the belief that it is immoral and improper for govern menttoin·terferewithitsoperation,itwouldprovideaneffective guarantee against governmental tinkering with the currency and against irresponsible monetary action. Under such a stand ard, any monetary powers of government would be very minor in scope. But,as justnoted, such an automaticsystemhashistor ically never proved feasible. It has always tended to develop in the direction of a mixed system containing fiduciary elements suchasbanknotesanddeposits,orgovernmentnotesinaddition tothe monetary commodity. And once fiduciary elements have been introduced, it has proved difficult to avoid governmental control over them, even when they were initially issued by private individuals. The reason is basically the difficulty of pre venting counterfeiting or its economic equivalent. Fiduciary money is a contract to pay standard money. It so happens that there tends to be a long interval between the making of such a contract and its realization. This enhances the difficulty of en forcingthecontractandhencealsothetemptationtoissuefraud ulent contracts. In addition, once fiduciary elements have been introduced,the temptation for government itselfto issue fiduci ary money is almost irresistible. In practice,therefore, commod ity standards have tended to become mixed standards involving extensiveinterventionbythestate.
 
 It should be noted that despite the great amount of talk by many people in favor ofthe gold standard, almost no one today literally desires an honest-ta-goodness, full gold standard. Peo ple who say they want a gold standard are almost invariably talkingaboutthepresentkind ofstandard,or the kind ofstand ard thatwasmaintained in the 1930's;agold standard managed by a central bank or other governmental bureau, which holds a smallamountofgoldas"backing"- tousethatverymisleading term- for fiduciary money. Some do go so far as to favor the kind of standard maintained in the 1920'S, in which there was literal circulation of gold or gold certificates as hand-ta-hand 42 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM currency- a gold-coin standard- but even they favor the co existence with gold of governmental fiduciary currency plus deposits issued by banks holding fractional reserves in either gold or fiduciary currency.
 
