China is still very far from being a free society, butthere is no doubt that the residents ofChina are freer and more prosperous than they were under Mao-freer in every dimension except the political. And there are even the first small signs ofsome increase in political freedom, manifested in the election of some officials in a growing number of vil lages. China has far to go, butit has been moving in the right direction.
 
 In the immediate post-World War II period, the standard doctrine was that development of the third world required central planning plus massive foreign aid. The failure of that formula wherever it was tried, as was pointed out so effec tively by Peter Bauer and others, and the dramatic success of the market-oriented policies of the East Asia tigers-Hong Kong, Singapore,Taiwan, SouthKorea-has producedavery different doctrine for development. By now, many countries in Latin America and Asia, and even a few in Africa have adopted a market-oriented approach and a smaller role for government. Many of the former Soviet satellites have done the same. In all those cases, in accordance with the theme of this book, increases in economic freedom have gone hand in handwithincreasesinpoliticalandcivilfreedom andhaveled to increased prosperity; competitive capitalism and freedom have beeninseparable.
 
 Afinal personal note: It is a rare privilege for an author to be able to evaluate his own work forty years after it first ap peared. I appreciate very much having the chance to do so. I am enormouslygratified byhowwell the book has withstood timeandhowpertinentitremainstotoday'sproblems.Ifthere is one major change I would make, it would be to replace the dichotomy of economic freedom and political freedom with thetrichotomyofeconomicfreedom, civilfreedom, andpolit ical freedom. After Ifinished the book, Hong Kong, before it was returned to China, persuaded me that while economic freedom is a necessary condition for civil and political free dom, political freedom, desirable though it may be, is not a necessary condition for economic and civil freedom. Along these lines, the one major defect in the book seems to me an x CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM inadequate treatment of the role of political freedom, which under some circumstances promotes economic and civic free dom, and under others, inhibits economic and civic freedom.
 
