" Theoperation of even this principle inlplicitly depends on state action. Prop ertyrights are mattersof law and social convention. As we have seen, their definition and enforcement is one of the primary functions of the state. The final distribution of income and wealth under the full operation of this principle may well de pend markedly on the rules of property adopted.
 
 What is the relation between this principle and another that seems ethically appealing, namely, equality of treatment? In part, the two principles are not contradictory. Payment in ac cordancewith productmaybe necessarytoachievetrueequality of treatment. Given individuals whom we are prepared to re gard as alike in ability and initial resources, if some have a greater taste for leisure and others for marketable goods, in equality of return through the market is necessary to achieve equality of total return or equality of treatment. One man may prefer a routine job with much time off for basking in the sun toamoreexactingjobpayingahighersalary;another manmay prefer the opposite. If both were paid equally in money, their incomes in a more fundamental sense would be unequal. Simi larly, equal treatment requires that an individual be paid more for a dirty, unattractive job than for a pleasant rewarding one.
 
 Much observed inequality is of this kind. Differences ofmoney income offset differences in other characteristics of the occupa tion or trade. In the jargon of economists, they are "equalizing differences" required to make the whole of the "net advan tages,"pecuniaryandnon-pecuniary,thesame.
 
 Another kind of inequality arising through the operation of the market is also required, in a somewhat more subtle sense,to produce equality of treatment, or to put it differently to satisfy men's tastes. It can be illustrated most simply by a lottery. Con sider a group of individuals who initially have equal endow ments and who all agree voluntarily to enter a lottery with very unequal prizes. The resultant inequality of income is surely re quired to permit the individuals in question to make the most of their initial equality. Redistribution of the income after the eventis equivalent to denyingthem the opportunitytoenter the lottery. This case is far more important in practice than would appear by taking the notion of a "lottery" literally. Individuals The Distribution ofIncome r63 choose occupations, investments, and the like partly in accord ance with their taste for uncertainty.
 
