Advances in any science or field often result from the work of one out of a large number of crackpots and quacks and people who have no standing in the profession. In the medical profession, under present circumstances, it is very difficult to engage in research or experimentation unless you are a member of the profession. If you are a member of the profes sion andwantto stay ingood standingin theprofession,you are seriously limited in the kind of experimentation you can do.
 
 A "faith healer" may be just a quack who is imposing himself on credulous patients, but maybe one in a thousand or in many thousands will produce an important improvement in medi cine. There are many different routes to knowledge and learn ing and the effect of restricting the practice of what is called medicine and defining it as we tend to do to aparticulargroup, who in the mainhave to conformtotheprevailingorthodoxy,is certain to reduce tIle amount of experimentation that goes on andhencetoreducetherateofgrowth ofknowledgeinthearea.
 
 What is true for the content of medicine is true also for its organizatiol1, as has already been suggested. I shall expand fur theronthispointbelow.
 
 There is still another way in which licensure, and the asso ciated monopoly in the practice of medicine, tend to render standards of practice low. I have already suggested that it ren ders the average quality of practice low by reducing the num ber of physicians, by reducing the aggregate number of hours available from trained physicians for more rather than less im portant tasks, and by reducing the incentive for research and development. It renders it low also by making it much more difficult for private individuals to collect from physicians for malpractice. One of the protections of the individual citizen against incompetence is protection against fraud and the ability to bring suit in the court against malpractice. Some suits are brought, and physicians complain agreat deal abouthow much they have to pay for malpractice insurance. Yet suits for mal..
 
 practice are fewer and less successful than·they would be were it not for the watchful eye of the medical associations. It is not easyto get aphysician to testify against afellow physicianwhen he faces the sanction ofbeing denied the right to practice in an IS8 CAPITALISM AND FREED0M "approved" hospital.
 
