The Southern states after the Civil War took many measures to impose legal restrictions on Negroes. One measure which was never taken on any scale was the establishment of barriers to the ownership of either real or personal property. The failure to impose such barriers clearly did not reflect any special concern to avoid restrictions on Negroes. It reflected rather, a basic beliefin private property which was so strong that it overrode the desire to discriminate against Negroes. The maintenance of the general rules of pri vate property and of capitalism have been a major source of ~pportunity for Negroes and have permitted them to make greater progress than they otherwise could have made. To take a more general example, the preserves of discrimination in any society are the areas that are most monopolistic in char acter, whereas discrimination against groups of particular color or religion is least in those areas where there is the greatest freedom of competition.
 
 As pointed out in chapter i, one of the paradoxes of experi ence is that, in spite ofthis historical evidence, it is precisely the minority groups that have frequently furnished the most vocal and most numerous advocates of fundamental alterations in a capitalist society. TheY"have tended to attribute to capitalism the residual restrictions they experience rather than to recog nize that the free market has been the major factor enabling these restrictions to be as small as they are.
 
 We have already seen how a free market separates economic efficiency from irrelevant characteristics. As noted in chapter i, the purchaser of bread does not know whether it was made from wheat grown by a white man or a Negro, by a Christian or a Jew. In consequence, the producerof wheat is in a position to use resources as effectively as he can, regardless of what the attitudes of the community may be toward th,e color, the religion, or other characteristics of the people he hires. Fur thermore' and perhaps more important, there is an economic incentive in a free market to separate economic efficiency from other characteristics of the individual. A businessman or an entrepreneur who expresses preferences in his business activi ties that are not related to productive efficiency is at a disad vantage compared to other individuals who do not. Such an 110 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM individual is in effect imposing higher costs on himself than are other individuals who do not have such preferences.
 
