In underdevel oped countries like India, Egypt, and so on, something like half of total income is property income. In the United States, roughly one-fifth is property income. And in other advanced capitalist countries, the proportion is not very different. Of course, these countries have much more capital than the primi tive countriesbut they are evenricher in the productive capacity of their residents; hence, the larger income from property is a smaller fraction of the total. The great achievement of capital ism has not been the accumulation of property, it has been the opportunities it has offered to men and women to extend and develop and improve their capacities.Yettheenemiesofcapital ism are fond of castigating it as materialist, and its friends all too often apologize for capitalism's materialism as a necessary costofprogress.
 
 Another striking fact, contrary to popular conception, is that capitalism leads to less inequality than alternative systems of organization and thatthe development ofcapitalismhasgreatly lessened the extent of inequality. Comparisons over space and time alike confirm this view. There is surely drastically less inequality in Western capitalist societies like the Scandinavian countries,France, Britain,and theUnited States,than in astatus societylikeIndiaorabackwardcountrylikeEgypt.Comparison with communist countries like Russia is more difficult because of paucity and unreliability of evidence. But if inequality is measured by differences in levels of living between the privi leged and other classes, such inequality may well be decidedly less in capitalistthan in communistcountries. AmongtheWest ern countries alone, inequality appears to be less, in any mean ingful sense, the more highly capitalist the country is: less in Britain than in France, less in the United States than in Britain - though these comparisons are rendered difficult by the prob lem of allowing for the intrinsic heterogeneity of populations; for afair comparison,for example,one should perhaps compare the United States, not with the United Kingdom alonebutwith the United Kingdom plus the West Indies plus its African pos seSSIons.
 
 With respect to changes over time, the economic progress achieved in the capitalist societies has been accompanied by a 170 CAPITALISM AND FREED0 ~1 drastic diminution in inequality.
 
