Butit will favor putting him in jail if he acts on his principles by refusing to hire a Negro for a particular job.
 
 As already stressed, the appropriate recourse of those of us who believe that a particular criterion such as color is irrele vant is to persuade our fellows to be of like mind, not to use the coercive power of the state to force them to act in accord ance with our principles. Of all groups, the ACLU should be the first both to recognize and proclaim that this is so.
 
 RIGHT-TO-WORK LAWS Some states have passed so-called "right-to-work" laws.
 
 These are laws which make it illegal to require membership in a union as a condition of employment.
 
 The principles involved in right-to-work laws are identical with those involved in FEPC. Both interfere with the freedom of the employment contract, in the one case by specifying that a particular color or religion cannot be made a condition of employment; in the other, that membership in a union cannot be. Despite the identity of principle, there is almost 100 per cent divergence of views with respect to the two laws. Almost all who favor FEPC oppose right to work; almost all who favor right to work oppose FEPC. As a liberal, I am opposed to both, as I am equally to laws outlawing the so-called "yel low-dog" contract (a contract making non-membership in a union a condition of employment).
 
 Given competition among employers and employees, there seems no reason why employers should not be free to offer any terms they want to their employees. In some cases employers find that employees prefer to have part of their remuneration take the form of amenities such as baseball fields or play fa cilities or better rest facilities rather than cash. Employers then find that it is more profitable to offer these facilities as part of their employment contract rather than to offer higher cash wages. Similarly, employers may offer pension plans, or re quire participation in pension plans, and the like. None of this involves any interference with the freedom of individuals to 116 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM find employment.
 
