I am myself persuaded, on the basis of extensive study of the historical evidence, that the difference in economic stability re vealed by the crude comparison is in fact attributable to the difference in monetary institutions. This evidence persuades me thatat least a third of theprice rise during and just after World WarI is attributable to the establishmentofthe Federal Reserve System and would not have occurred if the earlier banking system had been retained; that the severity ofeach of the major contractions- 1920-21, 192~33, and 1937-38- is directly at tributable to acts of commission and omission by the Reserve authorities and would nothaveoccurred underearliermonetary and banking arrangements. There might well have been re cessions on these or other occasions, but it is highly unlikely that any would have developed into amajor contraction.
 
 I clearly cannotpresent this evidence here.2 However,in view oftheimportancewhichtheGreatDepressionof 192~33played in forming-or, I would say, deforming-general attitudes to ward the role of government in economic affairs, it may be worthindicatingmorefullyfor thisepisodethekind ofinterpre tation suggested by the evidence.
 
 Because of its dramatic character, the stock market crash in October, 1929, which terminated the bull market of 1928 and 1929is oftenregarded as both the startand the major proximate cause of the Great Depression. Neither is correct. The peak of business was reached in mid-1929, some months prior to the crash. The peak may well have come as early as it did partly as a result of relatively tight money conditions imposed by the FederalReserveSysteminanattempttocurb"speculation"-in this indirect way, the stock market may have played a role in bringing about the contraction. The stock market crash in turn undoubtedly had some indirect effects on business confidence 2See my A Program for Monetary Stability and Milton Friedman and Anna J.
 
 Schwartz, A Monetary History of the United States, 1867-1960 (forthcoming by Princeton University Press for the National Bureau of Economic Research).
 
