Many state legislators, on the other hand, are graduates of night law schools. If they voted to restrict admission to the profession to graduates of approved schools,in effectthey wouldbevoting thatthey them selves were not qualified. Their reluctance to condemn their own competence has been the main factor that has tended to limit the extent to which law has been able to succeed in imitat ing medicine. I have not myself done any extensive work on re quirementsforadmissiontolawfor manyyearsbutI understand that this limitation is breaking drwn. The greater affluence of students means that a much lar''Jer fraction are going to full time law schools and this is changing the composition of the legislatures.
 
 To return to medicine, it is the provision about graduation from approved schools that is the most importantsourceofpro fessional controlover entry.Theprofessionhas used this control to limitnumbers. To avoid misunderstanding letme emphasize that I am not saying that individual members of the medical profession, the leaders of the medical profession, or the people who are in charge of the Council on Medical Education and Hospitals deliberately go outoftheir way to limit entry inorder to raise their own incomes. That is not the way it works. Even when such people explicitly comment on the desirability of limiting numbers to raise incomes they will always justify the policy on the grounds th~t if "too" many people are let in, this will lower their incomes so that they will be driven to resort to unethical practices in order to earn a "proper" income. The only way, they argue, in which ethical practices can be main tained is by keeping people at a standard of income which is adequate to the merits and needs of the medical profession. I must confess that this has always seemed to me objectionable on both ethical and factual grounds. It is extraordinary that leaders ofmedicine shouldproclaimpubliclythatthey andtheir colleagues must be paid to be ethical. And ifit were so, I doubt that the price would have any limit. There seems little corre lation between poverty and honesty. One would rather expect the opposite; dishonesty may not always pay but surely it some times does.
 
