The securities issued to finance the deficit would provide individuals with a way to accumulate savings while the government expenditures provided employ ment. This view has been thoroughly discredited by theoretical analysis and even more by actual experience, including the emergence of wholly new lines for private investment not dreamed of by the secular stagnationists. Yet it has left its heritage. The idea may be accepted by none, but the govern ment programs undertaken in its name, like some of those intended to prime the pump, are still with us and indeed ac count for ever-growing government expenditures.
 
 More recently, the emphasis has been on government ex penditures neither to prime the pump nor to hold in check the specter of secular stagnation but as a balance wheel. When private expenditures decline for any reason, it is said, govern mental expenditures should rise to keep total expenditures sta ble; conversely, when private expenditures rise, governmental expenditures should decline. Unfortunately, the balance wheel is unbalanced. Each recession, however minor, sends a shudder through politically sensitive legislators and administrators with their ever present fear that perhaps it is the harbinger of another 1929-33. They hasten to enact federal spending pro grams of one kind or another. Many of the programs do not in fact come into effect until after the recession has passed.
 
 Hence, insofar as they do affect total expenditures, on which I shall have more to say later, they tend to exacerbate the suc ceeding expansion rather than to mitigate the recession. The haste with which spending programs are approved is not matchedby an equal haste to repeal them or to eliminateothers when the recession is passed and expansion is under way. On the contrary, it is then argued that a "healthy" expansion must not be "jeopardized" by cuts in governmental expenditures.
 
 The chief harm done by the balance-wheel theory is therefore not that it has failed to offset recessions, which it has, and not that it has introduced an inflationary bias into governmental policy, which it has done too, but that it has continuously fos tered an expansion in the range of governmental activities at the federal level and prevented a reduction in the burden of federal taxes.
 
