In essence, what this argument says is that the community can be fooled into voting for a measure that it opposes by presenting the measure in a false guise. Needless to say, the people who argue this way are the loudest in their condemnation of "mis leading" commercial advertising!
 
 1 2. Nationalization of the provision of required annuities Supposewe avoid redistribution byrequiringeach persontopay for the annuity hegets, in the sense of course, that the premium suffices to cover the present value of the annuity, account being taken both of mortality and interest returns. What justification is there then for requiring him to purchase it from a govern mental concern? If redistribution is to be accomplished, clearly the taxing power of the government must be used. But if re distribution is to be no part of the program and, as we have just seen, it is hard to see any justification for making it part, why not permit individuals who wish to do so to purchase their an nuities from private concerns? A close analogy is provided by statelaws requiringcompulsorypurchaseofautomobile liability insurance. Sofar as I know, no state which has such a law even has a state insurance company, let alone compels automobile owners to buy their insurance from a government agency.
 
 Possibleeconomies ofscale are noargumentfor nationalizing the provision of annuities. If they are present, and the govern ment sets up a concern to sell annuity contracts, it may be able to undersell competitors by virtue ofits size. In that case, it will get the business without compulsion. If it cannot undersell 1Another current example of the same argument is in connection with proposals for federal subsidies for schooling (misleadingly labeled, "aid to education"). A case can be made for using federal funds to supplement schooling expenditures in the states with the lowest incomes, on the grounds that the children schooled may mi grate to other states. There is no case whatsoever for imposing taxes on all the states and giving federal subsidies to all the states. Yet every bill introduced into Congress provides for the latter and not the former. Some proponents of these bills, who recognize that only subsidies to some states can be justified, defend their position by saying that a bill providing only for such subsidies could not be passed and that the only way to get disproportionate subsidies to poorer states is to include theminabillprovidingsubsidiestoallstates.
 
