Governmentin aFreeSociety 33 ACTION THROUGH GOVERNMENT ON PATERNALISTIC GROUNDS Freedomisatenableobjectiveonlyforresponsibleindividuals.
 
 We do not believe in freedom for madmen or children. The necessity of drawing a line between responsible individuals and others is inescapable,yet itmeans thatthereisan essentialambi.
 
 guity in our ultimate objective of freedom. Paternalism is ines· capable for those whom we designate as not responsible.
 
 The clearest case,perhaps, is that of madmen. Weare willing neither to permit them freedom nor to shoot them. It would be nice if we could rely on voluntary activities of individuals to house and carefor the madmen. But I think we cannot rule out the possibility that such charitable activities will be inadequate, if only because of the neighborhood effect involved in the fact thatIbenefit ifanothermancontributestothecareoftheinsane.
 
 For this reason, we may be willing to arrange for their care through government.
 
 Children ofter a more difficult case. The ultimate operative unit in our society is the family, not the individual. Yet the acceptance of the family as the unit rests in considerable part onexpediencyrather thanprinciple.Webelieve thatparentsare generally best able to protect their children and to provide for their development into responsible individuals for whom free dom is appropriate. But we do not believe in the freedom of parents todowhattheywillwithotherpeople.Thechildren are responsible individuals in embryo,and abeliever in freedom be lievesinprotectingtheirultimaterights.
 
 To put this in a different and what may seem a more callous way,childrenareatoneand the same time consumergoods and potentially responsible members of society. The freedom of in dividuals to use their economic resources as they want includes the freedom to use them to have children- to buy, as it were, thes~rvices ofchildrenasaparticularform ofconsumption. But once this choice is exercised, the children have a value in and of themselves and have a freedom of their own that is not simply an extension of the freedom of the parents.
 
 Thepaternalisticgroundfor governmental activityis in many waysthemosttroublesometoaliberal;for itinvolvestheaccept- 34 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM ance of aprinciple- that some shall decide for others- which hefinds objectionable in mostapplications andwhich herightly regards as a hallmark of his chief intellectual opponents, the proponents of collectivism in one or another of its guises, whetheritbecommunism,socialism,orawelfarestate.
 
