The girl who tries to be come a movie actress rather than a civil servant is deliberately choosing to enter a lottery, so is the individual who invests in penny uranium stocks rather than government bonds. Insur anceisawayofexpressingatasteforcertainty.Eventheseexam ples do 'not indicate fully the extent to which actual inequality may be the result of arrangements designed to satisfy men's tastes. The very arrangements for paying and hiring people are affected by such preferences. If all potential movie actresses had a great dislike of uncertainty,.there would tend to develop "co operatives" of movie actresses, the members of which agreed in advance to share income receipts more or less evenly, thereby in effect providing themselves insurance through the pooling of risks. If such a preference were widespread, large diversified corporations combining risky and non-risky ventures would become the rule. The wild-cat oil prospector, the private pro prietorship, the small partnership, would all become rare.
 
 Indeed, this is oneway to interpretgovernmental measures to redistribute income through progressive taxes and the like. It can be argued that for one reason or another, costs of adminis tration perhaps, the market cannot produce the range of lot teries or the kind of lottery desired by the members of the community, and that progressive taxation is, as it were, a gov ernment enterprise to do so. I have no doubt that this view con tains an elementoftruth. At the same time, itcan hardly iustify present taxation, if only because the taxes are imposed after it is already largely known who have drawn theprizes and who the blanks in the lottery of life, and the taxes are voted mostly by those who think they have drawn the blanks. One might, along these lines, lustify one generation's voting the tax sched ules to be applied to an as yet unborn generation. Any such procedurewould,I conjecture,yield incometax schedules much less highly graduated than present schedules are, at least on paper.
 
 Though much of the inequality of income produced by pay ment in accordance with product reflects "equalizing" differ ences or the satisfaction of men's tastes for uncertainty, a large part reflects initial differences in endowment, both of human 164 CAPITALISM AND FREED0 M capacities and of property.
 
