Monopoly andSocialResponsibility 125 The distinction Ihave been drawing betweenlabor monopoly and enterprise monopoly is in one respect too sharp. To some extent, labor unions have served as a means of enforcing mo nopoly in the sale of a product. The clearest example is in coal.
 
 TheGuffeyCoalActwasanattempttoprovidelegalsupportfor a price-fixing cartel of coal-mine operators. When, in the mid thirties, this Act was declared unconstitutional, John L. Lewis and the United Mine Workers stepped into the breach. By call ing strikes or work stoppages whenever the amount of coal abovethegroundgotsolargeastothreatentoforce downprices, Lewis controlled output and thereby prices with the unspoken co-operation of the industry. The gains from this cartel man agement were divided between the coal mine operators and the miners. The gain to the miners was in the form of higher wage rates, which of course meant fewer miners employed.
 
 Hence only those miners who retained employment shared the cartel gains and even they took a large part of the gain in the form of greater leisure. The possibility of the unions playing this role derives from their exemption from the Sherman Anti trust Act. Many other unions have taken advantage of this ex emption and are better interpreted as enterprises selling the services of cartellizing an industry than as labor organizations.
 
 The Teamster's Union is perhaps the most notable.
 
 3. Government and Government-Supported Monopoly In the United States, direct government monopoly in the produc tion of goods for sale is not very extensive. The post office, elec tric power production, as by TVA and other publicly owned powerstations; theprovisionofhighwayservices,soldindirectly through the gasoline tax or directly by tolls, and municipal water and similar plants are the main examples. In addition, with so large a defense, space, and research budget as we now have, the federal government has become essentially the only purchaser of the products of many enterprises and whole in dustries. This raises very serious problems for the preservation ofa free society,but not ofakind that arebestconsidered under the heading of "monopoly." The use of government to establish, support and enforce cartel and monopoly arrangements among private producers has grown much more rapidly than direct government mo- 126 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM nopoly and is currently far more important.
 
