And the market does this impersonally and without centralized authority.
 
 Indeed, a major source of objection to a free economy is pre cisely that it does this task so well. It gives people what they want instead of what a particular group thinks they ought to want. Underlying most arguments against the free market is a lack of beliefin freedom itself.
 
 The existence of a free market does not of course eliminate theneed for government. On the contrary,government is essen tialboth asaforum for determiningthe"rulesofthegame"and asanumpiretointerpretand enforcetherules decidedon.What themarketdoes is toreducegreatlythe rangeofissuesthatmust bedecidedthroughpoliticalmeans,andtherebytominimizethe extent to which government need participate directly in the game. The characteristic feature of action through political channels is that it tends to require or enforce substantial con formity. The great advantage ofthe market, on the other hand, is that it permits wide diversity. It is, in political terms, a system of proportional representation. Each man can vote, as it were, for the color of tie he wants and get it; he does not have to see what color the majority wants and then, if he is in the minority, submit.
 
 It is this feature of the market that we refer to when we say that the market provides economic freedom. But this character istic also has implications that go far beyond the narrowly eco nomic. Political freedom means the absence of coercion of a man by his fellow men. The fundamental threat to freedom is power to coerce, be it in the hands of a monarch, a dictator, an oligarchy, or a momentary majority. The preservation of free dom requires the elimination ofsuch concentration of power to the fullest possible extent and the dispersal and distribution of whatever power cannot be eliminated- a system of checks and balances. By removing the organization of economic activity from the control of political authority, the market eiiminates this source ofcoercivepower. It enables economic strength to be a check to political power rather than a reinforcement.
 
 Economic power can be widely dispersed. There is no law of conservation which forces the growth of new centers of eco...
 
