Instead of individual practice plus large institutional hospitals conducted by governments or elee mosynary institutions,theremighthavedevelopedmedicalpart nerships or corporations- medical teams. These would have provided central diagnostic and treatment facilities, including hospital facilities. Some presumably would have been prepaid, combining in one package present hospital insurance,health in surance, and group medical practice. Others would have charged separate fees for separate services. And of course, most mighthaveusedbothmethodsofpayment.
 
 These medical teams- department stores of medicine, if you will-would be intermediaries between the patients and the physician. Being long-lived and immobile, they would have a great interest in establishing a reputation for reliability and quality. For the same reason, consumers would get to know their reputation. They would have the specialized skill to judge the quality of physicians; indeed, they would be the agent of the consumer in doing so, as the department store is now for many a product. In addition, they could organize medical care efficiently, combining medical men of different degrees of skill and training, using technicians with limited training for tasks for which they were suited, and reserving highly skilled and competent specialists for the tasks they alone could perform.
 
 TIle reader can add further flourishes for himself, drawing in part,as Ihavedone,onwhatnowgoeson atthe leadingmedical clinics.
 
 Of course, not all medical practice would be done through such teams. Individual private practice would continue, just as the small store with a limited clientele exists alongside the de partment store, the individual lawyer alongside the great many partnered firm. Men would establish individual reputations and some patients would prefer the privacy and intimacy of the individual practitioner. Some areas would be too small to be servedbymedicalteams.Andsoon.
 
 I would not even want to maintain that the medical teams would dominate the field. My aim is only to show by example that there are many alternatives to the present organization of practice.The impossibility ofanyindividualorsmallgroupcon ceiving of all the possibilities, let alone evaluating their merits, 160 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM is the great argument against central governmental planning and against arrangements such as professional monopolies that limit the possibilities of experimentation.
 
