Given greater freedom about where to send their children, parents of a kind would flock together and so pre vent a healthy intermingling of children from decidedly dif ferent backgrounds. Whether or not this argument is valid in principle, it is not at all clear that the stated results would follow. Under present arrangements, stratification of residen tial areas effectively restricts the intermingling of children from decidedly different backgrounds. In addition, parents are not now prevented from sending their children to private schools. Only a highly limited class can or does do so, paro chial schools aside, thus producing further stratification.
 
 Indeed, this argument seems to me to point in almost the diametrically opposite direction- toward the denationalizing of schools. Ask yourself in what respect the inhabitant of a low income neighborhood, let alone of a Negro neighbor hood in a large city, is most disadvantaged. If he attaches enough importance to, say, a new automobile, he can, by dint of saving, accumulate enough money to buy the same car as a resident of a high-income suburb. To do so, he need not move to that suburb. On the contrary, he can get the money partly by economizing on his living quarters. And this goes equally for clothes, or furniture, or books, or what not. But let a poor family in a slum have a gifted child and let it set such high value on his or her schooling that it is willing to scrimp and save for the purpose. Unless it can get special treatment, or scholarship assistance, at one of the very few private schools, tIle family is in a very difficult position. The "good" public schools are in the high income neighborhoods.
 
 The family might be willing to spend something in addition to what it pays in taxes to get better schooling for its child.
 
 But it can hardly afford simultaneously to move to the ex pensive neighborhood.
 
 Our views in these respects are, I believe, still dominated by the small town which had but one school for the poor and rich residents alike. Under such circumstances, public schools may well have equalized opportunities. With the growth of urban and suburban areas, the situation has changed drasti cally. Our present school system, far from equalizing oppor- The Roleof Governmentin Education 93 tunity, very likely does the opposite.
 
