1°4 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM been played by the cumulative effect of the novelty of the idea, thereluctance to thinkofinvestmentinhuman beingsasstrictly comparable to investment in physical assets, the resultant likelihood of irrational public condemnation of such contracts, even if voluntarily entered into, and legal and conventional limitations on the kind of investments that may be made by the financial intermediaries that would be best suited to engage in such investments, namely, life insurance companies.
 
 The potential gains, particularly to early entrants, are so great that it would be worth incurring extremely heavy administra tive costs.10 Whatever the reason, an imperfection of the market has led to underinvestment in human capital. Government interven tion might therefore be rationalized on grounds both of "tech nical monopoly," insofar as the obstacle to the development of such investment has been administrative costs, and of improv ing the operation of the market, insofar as it has been simply marketfrictions and rigidities.
 
 If government does intervene, how should it do so? One obvious form of intervention, and the only form that has so far been taken, is outright government subsidy of vocational or professional schooling financed out of general revenues. This form seems clearly inappropriate. Investment should be carried to the point at which the extra return repays the investment and yields the market rate of interest on it. If the invest ment is in a human being, the extra return takes the form of a higher payment for the individual's services than he could otherwise command. In a private market economy, the indi vidual would get this return as his personal income. If the investment were subsidized, he would have borne none of the costs. In consequence, if subsidies were given to all who wished 10It is amusing to speculate on how the business could be done and on some ancillary methods of profiting from it. The initial entrants would be able to choose the very best investments, by imposing very high quality standards on the in dividuals they were willing to finance. If they did so, they would increase the profitability of their investment by getting public recognition of the superior quality of the individuals they financed: the legend, "Training financed by XYZ Insurance Company" could be made into an assurance of quality (like "Approved by Good Housekeeping") that would attract custom. All sorts of other common services might be rendered by the XYZ company to "its" physicians, lawyers, dentists, and so on.
 
