If the expert says yea, who is there competent to say nay? So we have seen an increasing fraction of the popu lation drawn into the social security system, and now that there remain few possibilities of expansion in that direction, we are seeing a move toward the addition of new programs, such as medical care.
 
 I concludethat the case against the nationalization ofthepro vision of annuities is exceedingly strong, not only in terms of liberal principles but even in terms of the values expressed by proponents of the welfare state. If they believe that the govern mentcanprovide the servicebetterthan themarket,theyshould favCJr a government concern to issue annuities in open com petition with other concerns. If they are right, the government concern will prosper. If they are wrong, the welfare of the people will be advanced by having a private alternative. Only the doctrinaire socialist, or the believer in centralized control for itsownsake,can,sofar asI cansee,takeastandonprinciple in favor of nationalization of the provision of annuities.
 
 3. Compulsory Purchase of Annuities Having cleared away the underbrush, we are now ready to face the key issue: com pelling individuals to use some of their current income to pur chase annuities to provide for their old age.
 
 One possible justification for such compulsion is strictly pa ternalistic. Peoplecould ifthey wished decide todo individually what the law requires them to do as a group. But they are separately short-sighted and improvident. "We" know better than "they" that it is in their own good to providefor their old age to a greater extent than they would voluntarily; we cannot persuade them individually; but we can persuade 51 per cent or more to compel all to do what is in their own good. This paternalism is for responsible people, hence does not even have the excuse ofconcern for children or madmen.
 
 This position is internally consistent and logical. A thorough going paternalist who holds it cannot be dissuaded by being shown that he is making a mistake in logic. He is our oppo nent on grounds of principle, not simply a well-meaning but misguided friend. Basically, he believes in dictatorship, benevo lent and maybe majoritarian, but dictatorship none the less.
 
