But therehad been a revolution in politics, in science, and in technology. Surely, it was argued, we can do far better with a democratic political structure, modern tools, and modern science than was possible inearlierages.
 
 The attitudes of that time are still with us. There is still a tendency to regard any existing government intervention as de sirable, to attribute all evils to the market, and to evaluate new proposals for government control in their ideal form, as they might work if run by able, disinterested men, free from L~e pressure of special interest groups. The proponents of limited government and free enterpriseare stillonthedefensive.
 
 Yet, conditions have changed. We now have several decades of experience with governmental intervention. It is no longer necessary to compare the market as it actually operatesand gov ernment intervention as it ideally might operate. We can com paretheactualwiththeactual.
 
 If we do so, it is clear that the difference between the actual operation of the market and its ideal operation- great though it undoubtedly is- is as nothing compared to the difference bet,veen the actual effects ofgovernment intervention and their intended effects. Who can now see any great hope for the ad vancement ofmen'sfreedom and dignityin themassive tyranny and despotism that hold sway in Russia? Wrote Marx and En gels in The Communist Manifesto: "The proletarians have nothing to lose but their chains. They have a world to win." Who today can regard the chains of the proletarians in the Soviet Union as weaker than the chains of the proletarians in theUnitedStates,or BritainorFranceorGermanyoranyWest ern state?
 
 Let us look closer to home. Which if any of the great "re forms" of past decades has achieved its objectives? Have the good intentions of the proponents of these reforms been realized?
 
 Regulation of the railroads to protect the consumer quickly became an instrument whereby the railroads could protect themselves from the competition of newly emerging rivals- at theexpense,ofcourse,oftheconsumer.
 
