In consequence, this chapter is limited to a fairly cursory survey of some of the broader issues: the extent of monopoly, sources of monopoly, appropriate government policy, and the social responsibility of business and labor.
 
 THE EXTENT OF MONOPOLY There are three important areas of monopoly requiring sepa rate consideration: monopoly in industry, monopoly in labor, and governmentally produced monopoly.
 
 I. Monopoly in Industry The most important fact about enterprise monopoly is its relative unimportancefrom the point ofview ofthe economy as awhole.There are somefour million separate operating enterprises in the United States; some four hundred thousand new ones are born each year; a somewhat smaller number die each year. Nearly one fifth of the working populationisself-employed.In almostany industrythatonecan mention, there are giants and pygmies side by side.
 
 Beyond these general impressions, it is difficult to cite a satis factory objectivemeasureoftheextentofmonopolyandofcom petition. The main reason is one already noted: these concepts as used in economic theory are ideal constructs designed to analyze particularproblemsrather than todescribeexistingsitu ations. As a result, there can be no clear-cut determination of whether a particular enterprise or industry is to be regarded as monopolistic or as competitive. The difficulty of assigning pre cise meanings to such terms leads to much misunderstanding.
 
 Thesameword isused torefertodifferentthings,dependingon the background of experience in terms of which the state of competition is judged. Perhaps the most striking example is the extent to which an American student will describe as monopo listic, arrangements that a European would regard as highly competitive. As aresult, Europeans interpretingAmerican liter ature and discussion in terms of the meaning attached to the terms competition and monopoly in Europe tend to believe that there is a much greaterdegree ofmonopoly in the United States than in fact exists.
 
 A number of studies, particularly by G. Warren Nutter and 122 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM J.
 
