George Stigler, have tried to classify industries as monopo listic, workably competitive, and governmentally operated or supervised, and to trace changes over time in these categories.!
 
 Theyconclude that, as of 1939,roughly one quarter oftheecon omy could be regarded as governmentally operated or super vised. Of the three-quarters remaining, at most one-quarter and perhaps as little as 15 per cent can be regarded as monopolistic, at least three-quarters and perhaps as much as 85 per cent, as competitive. The governmentally operated or supervised sector has of course grown greatly over the past half-century or so.
 
 Within the private sector, on the other hand, there appears not to have been any tendency for the scope of monopoly to have increased and it may well have decreased.
 
 There is, I suspect, a widespread impression that monopoly is both far more important than these estimates suggest and has been growing steadily over time. One reason for this mistaken impression is the tendency to confuse absolute and relative size.
 
 As the economy has grown, enterprises have become larger in absolute size.Thishasbeentakentomean alsothattheyaccount for a larger fraction of the market, whereas the market may have grown even faster. A second reason is that monopoly is morenewsworthy and leadstomoreattentionthancompetition.
 
 If individuals were asked to list the major industries in the United States, almost all would include automobile production, few would include wholesale trade. Yetwholesale trade is twice as important as automobile production. Wholesale trade is highly competitive, hence draws little attention to itself. Few people could name any leading enterprises in wholesale trade, though there are some that arevery largein absolute size. Auto mobile production, while in certain respects highly competitive, hasmanyfewer firms and iscertainlyclosertomonopoly.Every one can name the leading firms producing automobiles. To cite one other striking example: domestic service is a vastly more important industry than the telegraph and telephone industry.
 
 Athirdreasonisthegeneralbiasand tendencytooveremphasize 1G. Warren Nutter, The Extent of Enterprise Monopoly in the United States, 189(}-I939 (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 195I) and George J. Stigler, Five Lectures on Economic Problems (London; Longmans, Green and Co., 1949), pp. 46-65.
 
