Alleviation ofPoverty 195 signsof a turning of the tide and of the exerciseofself-restraint onthepartoftheelectorate.
 
 LIBERALISM AND EGALITARIANISM The heart of the liberal philosophy is a belief in the dignity of the individual, in his freedom to make the most ofhis capac ities and opportunities according to his own lights, subject only to the proviso that he not interfere with the freedom of other individuals to do the same. This implies a belief in the equality of men in one sense; in their inequality in another.
 
 Each man has an equal right to freedom. This is an important and fundamental right precisely because men are different, be causeonemanwill wanttododifferentthingswithhisfreedom than another, and in the process can contribute more than an..
 
 other to the general culture of the society in which many men live.
 
 The liberal will therefore distinguish sharply between equal ity of rights and equality of opportunity, on the one hand, and material equality or equality of outcome on the other. He may welcome the fact that afree society in fact tends toward greater material equality than any other yet tried. But he will regard this as adesirableby-productofafree society,notitsmajor justi fication. He will welcome measures that promote both freedom and equality- such as measures to eliminate monopoly power and to improve the operation of the market. He will regard private charity directed at helping the less fortunate as an ex ample of the proper use offreedom. And he may approve state action toward ameliorating poverty as a more effective way in which the great bulk of the community can achieve a common objective. He will do so with regret, however, at having to sub stitute compulsory for voluntary action.
 
 The egalitarian will go this far, too. But he will want to go further. He will defend takingfrom some togive to others, not as a more effective means whereby the "some" can achieve an objective they want to achieve, but on grounds of "justice." At this point, equality comes sharply into conflict with freedom; one must choose. One cannot be both an egalitarian, in this sense, and a liberal.
 
