All constitute arbitrary limitations on the ability of individuals to enter into voluntary exchanges with one another. They simultaneously restrict free dom and promote the waste of resources.
 
 A kind ofgovernmentally created monopoly very differentin principle from those so far considered is the grant of patents to inventorsand copyrights to authors. Thesearedifferent,because they can equally be regarded as defining property rights. In a literal sense, if I have a property right to a particular piece of land,I can be said to have amonopoly with respect to that piece of land defined and enforced by the government. With respect to inventions and publications, the problem is whether it is de sirable to establish an analogous property right. This problem is part of the general need to use government to establish what shall and what shall not be regarded as property.
 
 In both patents and copyrights, there is clearly astrong prima facie case for establishing property rights. Unless this is done, the inventor will find it difficult or impossible to collect a pay ment for the contribution his invention makes to output. He will, that is, confer benefits on others for which he cannot be compensated.Hencehewillhavenoincentivetodevotethetime and effort required to produce the invention. Similar considera tions apply to the writer.
 
 At the same time, there are costs involved. For one thing, there are many "inventions" that are not patentable. The "in ventor" of the supermarket, for example, conferred great bene fits on his fellowmen for which he could not charge them.
 
 Insofar as the same kind ofabilityisrequiredfor theonekind of invention asfor theother,theexistenceofpatentstends todivert activity to patentable inventions. For another, trivial patents, or patents that would be of dubious legality if contested in court, are often used as a device for maintaining private collusive ar rangements thatwould otherwisebe moredifficultorimpossible to maintain.
 
 These are very superficial comments on adifficult and impor tant problem. Their aim is not to suggest any specific answer but only to show why patents and copyrights are in a different class from the other governmentally supported monopolies and to illustrate the problem of social policy that they raise. One 128 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM thing is clear.
 
