The man who is hard working and thrifty is to be re gardedas "deserving";yetthesequalitiesowemuchtothegenes he wasfortunate (or unfortunate?) enough to inherit.
 
 Despite the lip service that we all pay to "merit" as compared to"chance,"wearegenerallymuchreadiertoacceptinequalities arisingfrom chancethan those clearlyattributable tomerit.The college professor whose colleague wins a sweepstake will envy him but is unlikely to bear him any malice or to feel unjustly treated. Let the colleague receive a trivial raise that makes his salary higher than the professor's own, and the professor is far more likely to feel aggrieved. After all, the goddes~ of chance, as ofjustice,isblind.The salary raisewas adeliberate judgment ofrelativemerit.
 
 THE INSTRUMENTAL ROLE OF DISTRIBUTIONACCORDINGTOPRODUCT The operative function of payment in accordance with prod uct in a market society is not primarily distributive, but alloca tive. As was pointed out in chapter i, the central principle of a market economy is co-operation through voluntary exchange.
 
 Individuals co-operate with others because they can in this way satisfy their own wants more effectively. But unless an individ ual receives the whole of what he adds to the product, he will enter into exchanges on the basis of what he can receive rather than what he can produce. Exchanges will not take place that would havebeen mutuallybeneficialifeach partyreceivedwllat he contributed to the aggregate product.Paymentin accordance with product is therefore necessary in order that resources be used most effectively, at least under a system depending on vol untary co-operation. Given sufficient knowledge, it might be that compulsion couldbesubstitutedfor theincentiveofreward, though I doubt that it could. One can shufHe inanimate objects around; one can compel individuals to be at certain places at certain times; but one can hardly compel individuals to put forward their best efforts. Put another way, the substitution of compulsion for co-operation changes the amount of resources available.
 
