ADISCRETIONARY MONETARY AUTHORITY The establishment of the Federal Reserve System was the mostnotablechangeinUnitedStatesmonetaryinstitutionssince at least the Civil War National Banking Act. For the first time since the expiration of the charter of the Second Bank of the United States in 1836, it established a separate official body charged with explicit responsibility for monetary conditions, and supposedly clothed with adequate power to achieve mone tary stability or, at least, to prevent pronounced instability. It is therefore instructive to compare experience as a whole before and after its establishment- say, from just after the Civil War to 1914 and from 1914 to date, to take two periods of equal length.
 
 The second period was clearly the more unstable economi cally, whether instability is measured by the fluctuations in the stock of money, in prices, or in output. Partly, the greater in stability reflects the effect of two world wars during the second period; these would clearly have been a source of instability whateverourmonetarysystem. Butevenifthewarand immedi ate postwar years are omitted, and we consider only the peace time years from, say, 1920 through 1939, and 1947 to date, the result is the same. The stock of money, prices, and output was decidedly more unstable after the establishment of the Reserve System than before. The most dramatic period of instability in output was of course the period between the two wars which includes the severe contractions of 1920-21, 192~33, and 1937 38. No other twenty-year period in American history contains as many as three such severe contractions.
 
 This crude comparison does not of course prove that the Fed eral Reserve System failed to contribute to monetary stability.
 
 Perhaps the problems that the System had to handle were more severe than those that impinged on the earlier monetary struc ture. Perhaps those problems would have produced an even greaterdegree ofmonetary instability under the earlierarrange ments. But the crude comparison should at least give the reader The Control of Money 4S pause before he takes for granted, as is so often done, that an agency as long established, as powerful, as pervasive as the Fed eral Reserve System is performing a necessary and desirable function and is contributing to the attainment of the objective~ for which it was established.
 
