It would enable parents to buy what they want more efficiently and thereby lead them to spend more than they now do directly and indirectly through taxation. It would prevent parents from being frustrated in spending more money on schooling by both the present need for conformity in how the money is spent and by the understandable reluctance on the part of per sons not currently having children in school, and especially those who will not in the future have them in school, to impose higher taxes on themselves for purposes often far removed from education as theyunderstand the term.2 With respect to teachers' salaries, the major problem is not that they are too low on the average- they may well be too high on the average- but that they are too uniform and rigid.
 
 Poor teachers are grossly overpaid and good teachers grossly underpaid. Salary schedules tend to be uniform and deter mined far more by seniority, degrees received, and teaching certificates acquired than by merit. This, too, is largely a re sult of the present system of governmental administration of schools and becomes more serious as the unit over which gov ernmental control is exercised becomes larger. Indeed, this very fact is a major reason why professional educational organiza tions so strongly favor broadening the unit- from the local school district to the state, from the state to the federal govern ment. In any bureaucratic, essentially civil-service organization, standard salary scales are almost inevitable; it is next to impos sible to simulate competition capable of providing wide differ ences in salaries according to merit. The educators, which means the teachers themselves, come to exercise primary con trol. The parent or local community comes to exercise little control. In any area, whether it be carpentry or plumbing or teaching, the majority of workers favor standard salary scales and oppose merit differentials, for the obvious reason that the 2A striking example of the same effect in another field is the British National Health Service. In a careful and penetrating study, D. S. Lees establishes rather conclusively that, "Far from being extravagant, expenditure on NHS has been less than consumers would probably have chosen to spend in a free market. The record of hospital building in particular has been deplorable." "Health Through Choice," Hobart Paper I4 (London: Institute of Economic Affairs, 1961), p. 58.
 
