As a general rule, any minority that counts on specific ma jority action to defend its interests is short-sighted in the extreme. Acceptance of a general self-denying ordinance apply ing to a class of cases may inhibit specific majorities from exploitingspecific minorities. In the absence ofsuch aself-deny ing ordinance, majorities can surely be counted on to use their power to give effect to their preferences, or if you will, prejudices, not to protect minorities from the prejudices of majorities.
 
 To put the matter in another and perhaps more striking way, consider an individual who believes that the present pat tern of tastes is undesirable and who believes that Negroes have less opportunity than he would like to see them have.
 
 Suppose he puts his beliefs into practice by always choosing the Negro applicant for a job whenever there are a number of applicants more or less equally qualified in other respects.
 
 Under present circumstances should he be prevented from doing so? Clearly the logic of the FEPC is that he should be.
 
 The counterpart to fair employment in the area where these principles have perhaps been worked out more than any other, namely, the area of speech, is "fair speech" rather than free speech. In this respect the position ofthe American CivilLiber ties Union seems utterly contradictory. It favors both free speech and fair employment laws. One way to state the Justi fication for free speech is that we do not believe that it is desir able that momentary majorities decide what at any moment shall be regarded as appropriate speech. We want a free mar ket in ideas, so that ideas get a chance to win majority or near unanimous acceptance, even if initially held only by a few.
 
 Precisely the same considerations apply to employment or more generally to the market for goods and services. Is it any more desirable that momentary majorities decide what char acteristics are relevant to employment than what speech is appropriate? Indeed, can a free market in ideas long be main tained if a free market in goods and services is destroyed? The Capitalism andDiscrimination lIS ACLU will fight to the death to protect the right of a racist to preach on a street corner the doctrine of racial segregation.
 
