CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM In practice, the major argument given for licensure by its proponents is not this one, which has some appeal to a liberal, but rather a strictly paternalistic argument that has little or no appeal. Individuals, it is said, are incapable of choosing their own servants adequately, their own physician or plumber or barber. In order for a man to choose a physician intelligently, he would have to be a physician himself. Most of us, it is said, are therefore incompetent and we must be protected against our own ignorance. This amounts to saying that we in our capacity as voters must protect ourselves in our capacity as con sumers against our own ignorance, by seeing to it that people are not served by incompetent physicians or plumbers or barbers.
 
 Sofar, Ihavebeenlistingtheargumentsfor registration,certi fication, and licensing. In all three cases, it is clear that there are also strong social costs to be set against any of these advan tages. Some of these social costs have already been suggested and I shall illustrate them in more detail for medicine, but it may beworthrecordingthemhereingeneralform.
 
 The mostobvious socialcostis thatanyoneofthesemeasures, whether it be registration, certification, or licensure, almost in evitablybecomes atool in the hands ofa special producer group to obtain a monopoly position at the expense of the rest of the public. There is no way to avoid this result. One can devise one or another set of procedural controls designed to avert this out come, but none is likely to overcome the problem that arises out of the greater concentration of producer than of consumer interest. The people who are most concerned with any such arrangement, who will press most for its enforcement and be most concerned with its administration, will be the people in theparticularoccupationor trade involved.Theywillinevitably press for the extension of registration to certification and of certification to licensure. Once licensure is attained, the people who might develop an interest in undermining the regulations are kept from exerting their influence. They don't get a license, must therefore go into other occupations, and will lose interest.
 
 The result is invariably control over entry by members of the occupation itself and hence the establishment of a monopoly position.
 
