CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM and on the willingness of individuals to spend which exerted a depressinginfluenceonthecourseofbusiness. Butbythemselves, these effects could not have produced a collapse in economic ac tivity. At most, they would have made the contraction some whatlonger and more severe than the usual mild recessions that have punctuated American economic growth throughout our history; they would not have made it the catastrophe it was.
 
 Forsomethinglike thefirst year,the contractionshowednone of those special features that were to dominate its later course.
 
 Theeconomicdeclinewasmoreseverethanduringthefirst year of most contractions, possibly in response to the stock market crash plus the unusually tight monetary conditions that had been maintained since mid-1928. But it showed no qualitatively different characteristics, no signs of degenerating into a major catastrophe. Except on naIve post hoc ergo propter hoc reason ing,thereisnothingin the economic situation asit stoodin, say, Septemberor October, 1930that made the continued and drastic declineofthefollowing yearsinevitableorevenhighlyprobable.
 
 In retrospect, it is clear that the Reserve System should already have been behaving differently than it did, that it should not have allowed the money stock to decline by nearly 3 per cent from August 1929to October 1930- a larger decline than dur ing the whole of all but the most severe prior contractions.
 
 Though this was a mistake, it was perhaps excusable, and cer tainly not critical.
 
 The character of the contraction changed drastically in No vember 1930, when a series of bank failures led to widespread runs on banks, which is to say attempts by depositors to convert deposits into currency. The contagion spread from one part of the country to another and reached a climax with the failure on December II, 1930 of the Bank of the United States. This failure was critical not only because the Bank was one of the largestinthecountry,withover$200millionindeposits,butalso because, though an ordinary commercial bank, its name had led many both at home and even more abroad to regard it as somehow an official bank.
 
 Prior to October, 1930, there had been no sign of a liquidity crisis, or any loss of confidence in banks. From this time on, The Control of Money 47 theeconomywasplaguedbyrecurrentliquiditycrises.
 
