Even during the so-called great days of the gold standard in the nineteenth century, when the Bank ofEngland'Yas supposedly running the gold standard skilfully, the monetary system was far from afully automatic gold stand ard. Even then itwasahighlymanaged standard. And certainly thesituation is now m<;>re extreme as a result ofthe adoption by countryafter country of the view thatgovernment has responsi bility for "full employment." My conclusion is that an automatic commodity standard is neitherafeasiblenoradesirablesolutiontotheproblemofestab lishing monetary arrangemel1ts for a free society. It is not desirable because it would involve a large cost in the form of resources used to produce the monetary commodity. It is not feasible because the mythology and beliefs required to make it effectivedonotexist.
 
 Thisconclusionis supportednotonlybythegeneralhistorical evidence referred to but also by the specific experience of the United States.From 1879,when theUnited Statesresumed gold payments after the Civil War, to 1913,the United States was on a gold standard. Though closer to a thoroughly automatic gold standard than anything we have had since the end of World War I, the gold standard was still far from a 100 per cent gold standard. There were government issues of paper money, and private banks issued most of the effective circulating me dium of the country in the form of deposits; the banks were closely regulated in their operations by governmental agencies -national banks by the Comptroller of the Currency, state banks by state banking authorities. Gold, whether held by the Treasury, by banks, or directly by individuals as coins or gold certificates,accountedfor between 10per centand 20per centof themoneystock,theexactpercentagevarying from yeartoyear.
 
 The remaining 80 per cent to 90 per cent consisted of silver, fiduciary currency, and bank deposits not matched by gold reserves.
 
 In retrospect, the system may seem to us to have worked rea- The Control of Money 43 sonably well.
 
