18 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM In this way, the market breaks the vicious circle and makes itpossible ultimately to finance such ventures by small amounts from many people without first persuading them. There are no such possibilities in the socialist society; there is only the all powerful state.
 
 Letusstretchourimaginationandsupposethatasocialistgov ernment is aware of this problem and is composed of people anxious to preserve freedom. Could it provide the funds? Per haps, butitisdifficult toseehow. It could establish a bureaufor subsidizing subversive propaganda. But how could it choose whom to support? If it gave to all who asked, it would shortly find itself out of funds, for socialism cannot repeal the ele mentary economic law that a sufficiently high price will call forth a large supply. Make the advocacy of radical causes suffi ciently remunerative, and the supply of advocates will be un limited.
 
 Moreover, freedom to advocate unpopular causes does not require that such advocacy be without cost. On the contrary, no society could be stable if advocacy of radical change were cost less, much less subsidized. It is entirely appropriate that men make sacrifices to advocate causes in which they deeply believe.
 
 Indeed, it is importantto preservefreedom only for peoplewho are willing to practice self-denial,for otherwise freedom degen erates into license and irresponsibility. What is essential is that the cost of advocating unpopular causes be tolerable and not prohibitive.
 
 But we are not yet through. In a free market society, it is enough to have the funds. The suppliers of paper are as willing to sell it tothe Daily Worker as to the Wall Street Journal. In a socialist society, it would not be enough to have the funds. The hypothetical supporter of capitalism would have to persuade a government factory making paper to sell to him, the govern ment printing press to print his pamphlets, a government post officetodistributethemamongthepeople,agovernmentagency torenthimahallinwhich to talk,and soon.
 
 Perhapsthere is someway in whichone could overcome these difficulties and preserve freedom in a socialist society. One can not say it is utterly impossible. What is clear, however, is that there are very real difficulties in establishing institutions that EconomicFreedom andPoliticalFreedom 19 will effectively preserve the possibility of dissent.
 
