30 CAPITALISM AND FREED0 M The historical reason why we have a post office monopoly is because the Pony Express did such a good job of carrying the mailacross the continentthat, when thegovernmentintroduced transcontinental service, it couldn't compete effectively and lost money.Theresultwasalawmakingitillegalforanybodyelseto carry the mail. That is why the Adams Express Company is an investment trust today instead of an operating company. I con jecture that if entry into the mail-carrying business were open to all, there would be a large number of firms entering it and this archaic industry would become revolutionized in short order.
 
 A second general class of cases in which strictly voluntary ex change is impossible arises when actions of individuals have effects on other individuals for which it is not feasible to charge or recompense them. This is the problem of "neighborhood effects". An obvious example is the pollution of a stream. The manwhopollutesastreamisineffectforcingotherstoexchange good water for bad. These others might be willing to make the exchange at a price. But it is not feasible for them, acting indi vidually, to avoid the exchange or to enforce appropriate com pensation.
 
 A less obvious example is the provision of highways. In this case, it is technically possible to identify and hence charge indi viduals for their use of the roads and so to have private opera tion. However, for general access roads, involving many points ofentryandexit,thecostsofcollectionwouldbeextremelyhigh if a charge were to be made for the specific services received by each individual, because of the necessity of establishing toll booths or the equivalent at all entrances. The gasoline tax is a much cheaper method of charging individuals roughly in pro portiontotheiruse oftheroads.Thismethod,however,isonein which the particular payment cannot be identified closely with theparticularuse. Hence, it is hardlyfeasible to haveprivate en terprise provide the service and collectthe chargewithout estab lishing extensive private monopoly.
 
 These considerations do not apply to long-distance turnpikes with high density of traffic and limited access. For these, the costs of collection are small and in many cases are now being Governmentin aFreeSociety 31 paid, and there are often numerous alternatives, so that there is noseriousmonopolyproblem.
 
