People at the same economic level pay very different taxes depending on the acci dent of the source of their income and the opportunities they have to evade the tax. Ifpresent rates were made fully effective, the effect on incentives and the like might well be so serious as to cause a radical loss in the productivity of the society. Tax avoidance may therefore have been essential for economic well being. If so,thegainhasbeenbought atthecostofagreatwaste of resources, and of the introduction of widespread inequity. A much lower set of nominal rates, plus a more comprehensive base through more equal taxation of all sourcesofincome could be both more progressive in average incidence, more equitable in detail, and less wasteful ofresources.
 
 This judgment that the personal income tax has been arbi trary in its impact and of limited effectiveness in reducing in equality is widely shared by students of the subject, including manywhostronglyfavor theuseofgraduatedtaxationtoreduce inequality. They too urge that the top bracket rates be drasti callyreducedandthebasebroadened.
 
 A further factor that has reduced the impact of the gradu ated tax structure on inequality of income and wealth is that these taxes are much less taxes on being wealthy than on be coming wealthy. While they limit the use of the income from existing wealth, they impede even more strikingly- so far as they are effective- the accumulation of wealth. The taxation of the income from the wealth does nothing to reduce the wealth itself, it simply reduces the level of consumption and additions to wealth that the owners can support. The tax meas ures give an incentive to avoid risk and to embody existing wealth in relatively stable forms, which reduces the likelihood that existing accumulations of wealth will be dissipated. On the other side, the major route to new accumulations is through large current incomes of which a large fraction is saved and invested in risky activities, some of which will yield high re turns. If the income tax were effective, it would close this route.
 
 In consequence, its effect would be to protect existing holders of wealth from the competition of newcomers. In practice, this effect is largely dissipated by the avoidance devices already referred to. It is notable how large afraction ofthe new accum- 174 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM uations have been in oil, where the percentage depletion allow ~nces provide a particularly easy route to the receipt of tax-free Income.
 
