Governmentin aFreeSociety 29 Railroads in the United States are an excellent example. A largedegree ofmonopoly in railroads was perhaps inevitableon technical grounds in the nineteenth century. This was the justi fication for the Interstate Commerce Commission. But condi tions have changed. The emergence of road and air transport has reduced the monopoly element in railroads to negligible proportions. Yet we have not eliminated the ICC. On the con trary, the ICC, which started out as an agency to protect the publicfrom exploitation by the railroads, has become an agency toprotectrailroadsfrom competition bytrucks and othermeans of transport, and more recently even to protect existing truck companiesfrom competitionbynew entrants. Similarly,inEng land,when therailroads werenationalized, trucking was atfirst brought into the state monopoly. If railroads had never been subjected to regulation in the United States, it is nearly certain that by now transportation, including railroads, would be a highly competitive industry with little or no remaining monop oly elements.
 
 The choicebetween the evils ofprivate monopoly, public mo nopoly, and public regulation cannot, however, be made once and for all, independently of the factual circumstances. If the technical monopolyisofa serviceorcommoditythatisregarded as essential and if its monopoly power is sizable, even the short run effects of private unregulated monopoly may not be toler able, and either public regulation or ownership may be a lesser evil.
 
 Technical monopoly may on occasion justify ade facto public monopoly. Itcannotby itselfjustify apublicmonopolyachieved by making it illegal for anyone else to compete. For example, there is no way to justify our present public monopoly of the post office. It may be argued that the carrying of mail is a tech nical monopoly and that agovernment monopoly is the least of evils. 1~long these lines, one could perhaps justify a government post office but not the present law, which makes it illegal for anybody else to carry mail. If the delivery of mail is a technical monopoly,noone will be able to suceed in competition with the government. If it is not, there is no reason why the government should be engaged in it. The only way to find out is to leave other peoplefree to enter.
 
