The Roleof Governmentin Education 91 In terms of effects, denationalizing schooling would widen the range of choice available to parents. If, as at present, par ents can send their children to public schools without special payment, very few can or will send them to other schools unless they too are subsidized. Parochial schools are at a disad vantagein notgettinganyofthepublicfunds devoted to school ing, but they have the compensating advantage of being run by institutions that are willing to subsidize them and can raise funds to do so. There are few other sources of subsidies for pri vate schools. If present public expenditures on schooling were made available to parents regardless of where they send their children, a wide variety of schools would spring up to meet the demand. Parents could express their views about schools di rectly by withdrawing their children from one school and sending them to another, to a much greater extent than is now possible. In general, they can now take this step only at considerable cost- by sending their children to a private school or by changing their residence. For the rest, they can express their views only through cumbrous political channels.
 
 Perhapsasomewhatgreaterdegreeoffreedom to chooseschools could be made available in a governmentally administered system, but it would be difficult to carry this freedom very far in view of the obligation to provide every child with a place.
 
 Here, as in other fields, competitive enterprise is likely to be far more efficient in meeting consumer demand than either nationalized enterprises or enterprises run to serve other pur poses. The final result may therefore be that parochial schools would decline rather than grow in importance.
 
 A related factor working in the same direction is the under standable reluctance of parents who send their children to parochial schools to increase taxes to finance higher public school expenditures. As a result, those areas where parochial schools are important have great difficulty raising funds for public schools. Insofar as quality is related to expenditure, as to some extent it undoubtedly is, public schools tend to be of lower quality in such areas and hence parochial schools are relatively more attractive.
 
 Another special case of the argument that governmentally conducted schools are necessary for education to be a unifying 92 CAPITALISM AND FREED0 M force is that private schools would tend to exacerbate class distinctions.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
