I find it inconceivable to see how this is relevant to medical performance. A similar requirement that they have tried to impose on occasion is that examination for licensure must be taken in English. A dramatic piece of evidence on the power and potency of the Association as well as on the lack of relation to quality is proved by one figure that I have always found striking. After 1933, when Hitler came to power in Ger many, there was a tremendous outflow of professional people from Germany, Austria and so on, including of course, physi cians who wanted to practice in the United States. The number of physicians trained abroad who were admitted to practice in the United States in the five years after 1933 was the same as in the five years before. This was clearly not the result of the nat ural course of events. The threat of these additional physicians led to a stringent tightening of requirements for foreign physi cians that imposed extreme costs upon them.
 
 It is clear that licensure is the key to the medical profession's ability to restrict the number of physicians who practice medi cine. It is also the key to its ability to restrict technological and organizational changes in the way medicine is conducted. The American Medical Association has been consistently against the practice of group medicine, and against prepaid medical plans. These methods of practice may have good features and bad features, but they are technological innovations that people ought to be free to tryout if they wish. There is no basis for saying conclusively that the optimum technical method of or ganizing medical practice is practice by an independent physi cian. Maybe it is group practice, maybe it is by corporations.
 
 One ought to have a system under which all varieties can be tried.
 
 The American Medical Association hasresisted such attempts and has been able effectively to inhibit them. It has been able to do so because licensure has indirectly given it control of admission to practice in hospitals. The Council on Medical Ed ucation and Hospitals approves hospitals as well as medical schools. In order for a physician to get admission to practice in an "approved" hospital, he must generally be approved by his county medical association or by the hospital board. Why Occupational Licensure IS5 can't unapproved hospitals be set Up?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
