Vin CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM Non-defense spending fluctuated around a roughly constant level: 3I percentin 1982, 30percentin 2000.
 
 The climate ofopinion received a further boost in the same direction when the Berlin wall fell in 1989 and the Soviet Union collapsed in 1992. That brought to a dramatic end an experiment of some seventy years between two alternative ways oforganizinganeconomy: top-down versus bottom-up; central planning and control versus private markets; more colloquially, socialismversuscapitalism. Theresultofthatex periment had been foreshadowed by a number of similar ex periments on a smaller scale: Hong Kong and Taiwan versus mainland China; West Germany versus East Germany; South Koreaversus NorthKorea. Butittookthedrama oftheBerlin Wall and the collapse of the Soviet Union to make it part of conventional wisdom, so that itis now taken for granted that central planning is indeed The Road to Serfdom, as Friedrich A. Hayek titled his brilliant 1944 polemic.
 
 What is true for the United States and Great Britain is equally true for the other Western advanced countries. In country after country, the initial postwar decades witnessed exploding socialism, followed by creeping or stagnant social ism. And in all these countries the pressure today is toward giving markets agreater role and government a smaller one. I interpretthe situation as reflectingthe longlag between opin ion and practice. The rapid socialization of the post-World War II decades reflected the prewar shift of opinion toward collectivism; the creeping or stagnant socialism of the past few decades reflects the earlyeffects ofthe postwarchange of opinion; future desocialization will reflect the mature effects ofthe change in opinion reinforced by the collapse ofthe So vietUnion.
 
 Thechangeinopinionhashadanevenmoredramaticeffect on the formerly underdeveloped world. That has been true even in China, the largest remaining explicitly communist state. The introduction ofmarket reforms by Deng Xiaoping in the late seventies, in effectprivatizing agriculture, dramati cally increased output and led to the introduction of addi tional market elements into a communist command society.
 
 The limited increase in economic freedom has changed the Preface, 2002 IX face of China, strikinglyconfirming our faith in the power of free markets.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
