Occupational Licensure 145 The third stage is licensing proper. This is an arrangement under which one must obtain a license from a recognized au thority in order to engage in the occupation. The license is more than a formality. It requires some demonstration of com petence or the meeting of some tests ostensibly designed to in sure competence, and anyone who does not have a license is not authorized to practice and is subject to a fine or a jail sentence if he does engage in practice.
 
 The question I want to consider is this: under what circum stances,if any, canwe justify the oneorthe otherofthese steps?
 
 There are three differentgroundsonwhich itseemstome regis tration can be justified consistently with liberal principles.
 
 First, it may assist in the pursuit of other aims. Let me illus trate. Thepoliceare often concerned withactsofviolence. After the event, it is desirable to find out who had access to firearms.
 
 Before the event, it is desirable to prevent firearms from getting into the hands ofpeoplewho are likely to use themfor criminal purposes. It may assistin thepursuitofthis aim toregister stores selling firearms. Of course, if I may revert to a point made several times in earlier chapters, it is never enough to say that there might be a justification along these lines, in order to con cludethat there isjustification. Itis necessary to setup abalance sheet of the advantages and disadvantages in the light of liberal principles. All I am now saying is that this consideration might in somecases justifyoverridingthegeneral presumption against requiring the registration of people.
 
 Second,registration is sometimesadevicetofacilitate taxation and nothing more. The questions at issue then become whether the particular tax is an appropriate method to raise revenue for financing government services regarded as necessary, and whether registration facilitates the collection of taxes. It may dosoeitherbecauseatax isimposed onthepersonwhoregisters, orbecausethepersonwhoregistersis used asataxcollector.For example, in collecting a sales tax imposed on various items of consumption, it is necessary to have a register or list of all the places selling goods subject to the tax.
 
 Third, and this is the onepossible justificationfor registration which is close to our main interest, registration may be a means to protectconsumers againstfraud. In general, liberal principles CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM assign to the state the power to enforce contracts, and fraud involves the violation of a contract.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
