Economic arrangements playa dual role in the promotion of a free society. On the one hand, freedom in economic arrange ments is itself a component of freedom broadly understood, so economic freedom is an end in itself. In the second place, eco nomic freedom is also an indispensable means toward the achievement of political freedom.
 
 The first of these roles of economic freedom needs special emphasis because intellectuals in particular have a strong bias againstregardingthisaspectoffreedom asimportant.Theytend to express contempt for what they regard as material aspects of life, and to regard their own pursuit of allegedly higher values as onadifferentplaneofsignificanceand asdeserving ofspecial attention. For most citizens of the country, however, if not for the intellectual, the direct importanceof economicfreedom is at least comparable in significance to the indirect importance of economicfreedomasameanstopoliticalfreedom.
 
 The citizenofGreat Britain,whoafterWorld War II was not permitted to spend his vacation in the United States because of exchange control, was being deprived of an essential freedom no less than the citizen of the United States, who was denied the opportunity to spend his vacation in Russia because of his political views. The one was ostensibly an economic limitation on freedom and the other a political limitation, yet there is no essentialdifferencebetweenthe two.
 
 The citizen of the"United States who is compelled by law to devote something like 10per cent ofhis income to the purchase of aparticular kind of retirement contract, administered by the government, is being deprived of a corresponding part of his personal freedom. How strongly this deprivation may be felt and its closeness to the deprivation of religious freedom, which all would regard as "civil" or "political" rather than "eeo..
 
 nomic", were dramatized by an episode involving a group of farmers of the Amish sect. On grounds of principle, this group EconomicFreedom andPoliticalFreedom 9 regarded compulsory federal old age programs as an infringe ment of their personal individual freedom and refused to pay taxes or accept benefits.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
