That book was reviewed by every big newspaper and magazine, often with long, important articles. It was not only partly printed again in Book Digest, but also shown on the cover. Free to Choose sold about 400,000 hardcover copies in its first year in the U.S., has been translated into twelve different languages, and was released as a cheap paperback in early 1981.

The difference in how people reacted to the two books can’t be explained by one being better than the other. Actually, the earlier book is more about deep ideas and is more basic. Free to Choose, as we said in its introduction, has "more practical stuff, less theory." It goes well with, but doesn’t replace, Capitalism and Freedom. On the surface, the difference in how people liked the books might be because of TV. Free to Choose was based on and made to go with our TV series on PBS with the same name, and the TV show’s success definitely helped the book become popular.

But that’s only part of the story because the TV show’s success also shows that people’s thinking has changed. In the 1960s, no one asked us to make a TV show like Free to Choose. There would have been few or no sponsors for it. Even if the show had been made, hardly anyone would have wanted to watch it. So, the different reactions to the later book and the success of the TV show happened because people’s opinions changed. The ideas in our two books aren’t the most popular yet, but now they are respected by smart people and probably pretty normal for most people.

The change in what people think didn’t happen just because of this book or others like Hayek’s Road to Serfdom and Constitution of Liberty, which are in the same way of thinking. To prove this, you can look at the call for articles for a meeting called Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy by the editors of Commentary in 1978. They said, "The idea that capitalism and democracy are linked has started to seem believable to some smart people who used to think it was not only wrong but even dangerous."
