FLOATING EXCHANGE RATES AS THE FREE MARKET SOLUTION There are only two mechanisms that are consistent with a freemarketandfree trade.Oneisafully automaticinternational gold standard. This, as we saw in the preceding chapter, is neither feasible nor desirable. In any event, we cannot adopt it by ourselves. The other is a system of freely Roating ex change rates determined in the market by private transactions without governmental intervention. This is the proper free market counterpart to the monetary rule advocated in the pre ceding chapter. If we do not adopt it, we shall inevitably fail to expand the area of free trade and shall sooner or later be induced to impose widespread direct controls over trade. In this area, as in others, conditions can and do change unexpect edly. It may well be that we shall muddle through the diffi culties that are facing us as this is written (April, 1962) and indeed that we may find ourselves in a surplus rather than deficit position, accumulating reserves rather than losing them.
 
 If so, this will only mean that other countries will be'faced with the necessity of imposing controls. When, in 1950, I wrote an article proposing a system of floating exchange rates, it was in the context of European payments difficulties accompanying the then alleged "dollar shortage." Such a turnabout is always possible. Indeed, it is the very difficulty of predicting when and how such changes occur that is the basic argument for a free market. Our problem is not to "solve" a balance of payments problem. It is to solve the balance of payments problem by adopting a mechanism that will enable free market forces to provide a prompt, effective, and automatic response to changes in conditions affecting international trade.
 
 Though freely floating exchange rates seem so clearly to be the appropriate free-market mechanism, they are strongly sup ported only by a fairly small number of liberals, mostly pro fessional economists, and are opposed by many liberals who reject governmental intervention and governmental price fixing in almost every other area. Why is this so? One reason 68 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM is simply the tyranny of the status quo.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
