186 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM them, then presumably economiesofscale are notpresentor are not sufficient to overcome other diseconomies of governmental operation.
 
 One possible advantage of nationalizing the provision of an nuities is to facilitate the enforcement of compulsory purchase of annuities. However, this seems a rather trivial advantage. It would beeasytodevisealternativeadministrative arrangements, such as requiring individuals to include a copy of a receipt for premium payments along with their income tax returns; or having their employers certify to their having met the require ment. The administrative problem would surely be minor com pared with that imposed by the present arrangements.
 
 The costs of nationalization seem clearly to outweigh any such trivial advantage. Here, as elsewhere, individual freedom to choose, and competition of private enterprises for custom, would promote improvements in the kinds of contracts avail able, and foster variety and diversity to meet individual need.
 
 On the political level, there is the obvious gain from avoiding an expansion in the scale of governmental activity and the in direct threat to freedom of every such expansion.
 
 Some less obvious political costs arise from the character of the present program. The issues involvedbecomevery technical and complex. The layman is often incompetent to judge them.
 
 Nationalization means that the bulk of the "experts" become employees of the nationalized system, or university people closely linked with it. Inevitably, they come to favor its ex pansion, not, I hasten to add, out of narrow self-interest but because they are operating within a framework in which they take for granted governmental administration and are familiar only with its techniques. The only saving grace in the United States so far has been the existence of private insurance com panies involved in similar activities.
 
 Effective control by Congress over the operations of such agencies as the Social Security Administration becomes essen tially impossible as a result of the technical character of their task and their near-monopoly of experts. They become self governing bodies whose proposals are in the main rubber stamped by Congress. The able and ambitious men who make their careers in them are naturally anxious to expand the scope Social Welfare Measures 187 of their agencies and it is exceedingly difficult to prevent them from doing so.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
