Instead, direct governmental controls or interferences with trade could u.s.
 
 be used to reduce attempted expenditures of dollars and u.s.
 
 expand receipts. Tariffs could be raised to choke off im ports, subsidies could be given to stimulate exports, import quotas could be imposed on a variety of goods, capital invest u.s.
 
 ment abroad by citizens or firms could be controlled, and so on and on up to the whole paraphernalia of exchange con trols. In this category must be included not only controls over private activities but also changes in governmental programs for balance of payments purposes. Recipients of foreign aid may be required to spend the aid in the U.S.; the military may procure goods in the United States at greater expense instead of abroad in order to save "dollars"- in the self-contradictory terminology used- and so on in bewildering array.
 
 The important thing to note is that one or another of these four ways will and must be used. Double entry books must bal ance. Payments must equal receipts. The only question is how.
 
 Our announced national policy has been and continues to be that we shall do none of these things. In a speech in Decem ber 1961, to the National Association of Manufacturers, Presi dent Kennedy stated "This administration, therefore, during its term of office- and I repeat this and make it as a flat statement- has no intention of imposing exchange controls, devaluing the dollar, raising trade barriers or choking off our economic recovery." As a matter of logic, this leaves only two possibilities: getting other countries to take the relevant meas ures, which is hardly a recourse that we can be sure of, or drawing down reserves, which the President and other officials repeatedly stated must not be permitted to continue. Yet Time magazine reports that the President's "promise drew a burst of applause" from the assembled businessmen. So far as our announced policy is concerned, we are in the position of a man living beyond his income who insists that he cannot possibly earn more, or spend less, or borrow, or finance the excess out of his assets!
 
 Because we have been unwilling to adopt anyone coherent policy, we and our trading partners-who make the same ostrich-like pronouncements as we do- have perforce been 66 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM led to resort to all four mechanisms.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
