GASI is a cure, if cure it be at all, for a very different malady and one of which we have had no experience.
 
 The unemployed of the 1930's certainly created a serious problem of the relief of distress, of many people becoming public charges. But old-age was by no means the most serious problem. Many people in productive ages were on the relief or assistance rolls. And the steady spread of GASI, until today more than sixteen million persons receive benefits, has not prevented a continued growth in the number receiving public assistance.
 
 Private arrangements for the care of the aged have altered greatly over time. Children were at one time the major means whereby people provided for their own old age. As the com munity became more affluent, the mores changed. The respon sibilities imposed on children to care for their parents declined and more and more people came to make provision for old age in the form of accumulating property or acquiring private pen sion rights. More recently, the development of pension plans over and above GASI has accelerated. Indeed, some students believe that a continuation of present trends points to a society in which a large fraction of the public scrimps in their pro ductive years to provide themselves with a higher standard of life in old age than they ever enjoyed in the prime oflife. Some of us may think such a trend perverse, but if it refle~ts the tastes of the community, so be it.
 
 Compulsory purchase of annuities has therefore imposed large costsfor littlegain. Ithas deprived all of us ofcontrol over a sizable fraction of our income, requiring us to devote it to a particularpurpose,purchaseof aretirement annuity,in apartic ular way, by buying it from a government concern. It has in hibited competitionin thesaleofannuitiesand thedevelopment of retirement arrangements. It has given birth to a large bu reaucracy that shows tendencies ofgrowingby what itfeeds on, of extending its scope from one area ofour life to another. And all this, to avoid the danger that a few people might become charges on the public.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
