CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM Men's freedoms can conflict, and when they do, one man's free dommustbelimitedtopreserveanother's- asaSupremeCourt Justiceonceputit,"Myfreedom tomovemyfistmustbelimited by the proximity of your chin." The major problem in deciding the appropriate activities of gover1)mentishowtoresolvesuchconflictsamongthefreedoms ofdifferentindividuals. In some cases, the answer is easy. There is little difficulty in attaining near unanimity to the proposition that one man's freedom to murder his neighbor m'ust be sacri ficed to preserve the freedom of the other man to live. In other cases,the answer isdifficult. In the economicarea,a major prob lem arises in respectofthe conflictbetweenfreedom to combine and freedom to compete. What meaning is to be attributed to "free" as modifying "enterprise"?In the United States, "free" has been understood to mean that anyone is free to set up an enterprise, which means that existing enterprises are not free to keep out competitors except by selling a better product atthesamepriceorthesameproductatalowerprice.Inthecon tinental tradition, on the otherhand, the meaninghasgenerally been that enterprises are free to do what they want, including the fixing of prices, division of markets, and the adoption of other techniques to keep out potential competitors. Perhaps the most difficult specific problem in this area arises with respect to combinations among laborers, where the problem of freedom to combine and freedom to compete is particularly acute.
 
 A still more basic economic area in which the answer is both difficult and important is the definition of property rights. The notion of property, as it has developed over centuries and as it is embodied in our legal codes,has become so much a part ofus that we tend to take it for granted, and fail to recognize the ex tent to which justwhat constitutesproperty and whatrights the ownership of property confers are complex social creations ra therthan self-evident propositions.Doesmyhavingtitle toland, for example, and my freedom to use myproperty as I wish, per mit me to deny to someone else the right to fly over my land in his airplane? Or does his right to use his airplane take preced ence? Or does this depend on how high he flies? Orhow much noise he makes? Does voluntary exchange require that he pay GOtlernmentin aFreeSociety 27 mefor the privilege of flying over my land?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
