He is proud of a common heritage and loyal to common traditions. But he regards government as a means, an instrumentality, neither agrantor offavors and gifts, nor a master or god to be blindly worshipped and served. He recognizes no national goal except as it is the consensus of the goals that the citizensseverally serve. He recognizes no national purpose except as it is the consensus of the purposes for which the citizens severally strive.
 
 The free man will ask neither what his country can do for him nor what he can do for his country. He will ask rather "What can I and my compatriots do through government" to help us discharge our individual responsibilities, to achieve our several goals and purposes, and above all, to protect our free dom? And hewill accompany this questionwith another: How canwekeepthegovernmentwe createfrom becomingaFrank enstein that will destroy the veryfreedom we establish it to pro tect? Freedom is a rare and delicate plant. OUf minds tell us, and history confirms, that the great threat to freedom is the concentrationofpower.Governmentisnecessarytopreserveour freedom, it is an instrument through which we can exercise our freedom; yetby concentratingpower inpoliticalhands, it is also a threat to freedom. Even though the men who wield this power initially be of good will and even though they be not corruptedbythepowertheyexercise,thepowerwillbothattract and form men of a different stamp.
 
 How can we benefit from the promise of government while avoidingthethreattofreedom? Twobroadprinciplesembodied in our Constitution give an answer that has preserved our free dom so far, though they have been violated repeatedly in prac tice while proclaimed as precept.
 
 First,thescopeofgovernmentmustbelimited.Itsmajorfunc tion must be to protectourfreedom both from the enemies out side our gates and from our fellow-citizens: to preserve law and order,toenforceprivatecontracts,tofoster competitivemarkets.
 
 Beyond this majorfunction, governmentmayenableus attimes to accomplish jointly what we would find it more difficult or expensivetoaccomplishseverally.However,anysuchuseofgov ernment is fraught with danger. We should not and cannot avoidusing government inthis way. But there should bea clear Introduction 3 and large balance of advantages before we do.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
