144 CAPITALISM AND FREED0 M The only way that I can see to offset special producer groups is to establish a general presumption against the state under..
 
 taking certain kinds of activities. Only if there is a general recognition that governmental activities should be severely limited with respect to a class of cases, can the burden of proof be put strongly enough on those who would depart from this general presumption to give a reasonable hope of limiting the spread of special measures to further special interests. This point is one we have adverted to time and again. It is of apiece with the argument for the Bill of Rights and for a rule to govern monetary policy and fiscal policy.
 
 POLICY ISSUES RAISED BY LICENSURE It is important to distinguish three different levels of control: first, registration; second, certification; third, licensing.
 
 By registration, I mean an arrangement under which indi viduals are required to list their names in some official register iftheyengageincertainkindsofactivities.Thereisnoprovision for denying the right to engage in the activity to anyone who is willing to list his name. He may be charged a fee, either as a registration fee or as a scheme of taxation.
 
 The second level is certification. The governmental agency may certify that an individual has certain skills but may not prevent, in any way, the practice of any occupation using these skillsbypeoplewhodonothave such a certificate. Oneexample is accountancy. In most states, anybody can be an accountant, whether he is a certified public accountant or not, but only those people who have passed a particular test can put the title CPA after their names or can put a sign in their offices saying they are certified public accountants. Certification is frequently only an intermediate stage. In many states, there has been a tendency to restrict an increasing range of activities to certified public accountants. With respect to such activities there is Ii..
 
 censure, not certification. In some states, "architect" is a title which can be used only by those who have passed a specified examination. This is certification. It does not prevent anyone else from going into the business of advising people for a fee how to build houses.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
