Recognizing the implicit threat to individualism, the intellectual descendants of the Philosophical Radicals- Dicey, Mises, Hayek, and Si mons, to mention only a few- feared that a continued move ment toward centralized control of economic activity would prove The Road to Serfdom, as Hayek entitled his penetrating analysis of the process. Their emphasis was on economic free dom as a means toward political freedom.
 
 Events since the end of World War II display still a different relation between economic and political freedom. Collectivist economic planning has indeed interfered with individual free dom.Atleastin somecountries,however,theresulthasnotbeen the suppression offreedom, but the reversal of economic policy.
 
 England again providesthemost strikingexample. The turning point was perhaps the "control of engagements" order which, despite great misgivings, the Labour party found it necessary to impose in order to carry out its economicpolicy. Fully enforced and carried through, the law would have involved centralized allocation of individuals to occupations. This conflicted so sharplywith personal liberty that itwas enforced in a negligible number of cases, and then repealed after the law had been in effect for only a short period. Its repeal ushered in a decided shift in economic policy, marked by reduced reliance on cen tralized "plans" and "programs", by the dismantling of many controls, and by increased emphasis on the private market. A similar shift in policy occurred in most other democratic countries.
 
 The proximate explanation ofthese shifts in policy is the lim ited success of central planningor its outrightfailure to achieve stated objectives. However, this failure is itself to be attrib uted, at least in some measure, to the political implications of central planning and to an unwillingness to follow out its logic when doing so requires trampling rough-shod on treasured private rights. It may well be that the shift is only a temporary interruption in the collectivist trend of this century. Even so, it illustrates the close relation between political freedom and eco nomic arrangements.
 
 Historical evidenceby itselfcan never be convincing. Perhaps it was sheercoincidence that the expansion offreedom occurred 12 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM at the same time as the development of capitalist and market institutions.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
