As an operational matter, the program known as old age and survivor's insurance (OASI) consists of a special tax imposed on payrolls, plus paymentsto personswhohave reached aspeci fied age, of amounts determined by the age at which payments begin, family status, and prior earning record.
 
 As an analytical matter, OASI consists of three separable ele ments: I. The requirement that a wide class of persons must pur chase specified annuities, i.e., compulsory provision for old age.
 
 2. The requiren1ent that the annuity mustbe purchasedfrom the government; i.e., nationalization of the provision of the.se annuities.
 
 3. A scheme for redistributing income, insofar as the value of the annuities to which people are entitled when they enter the system is not equal to the taxes they will pay.
 
 Clearly, there is no necessity for these elements to be com bined. Each individual could be required to pay for h.is own annuity; the individual could be permitted to purchase an an..
 
 nuity from private firms; yet individuals could be required to purchase specified annuities. The government could go into the business of selling annuities without compelling individuals to buy specified annuities and require the business to be self supporting. And clearly the government can and does engage in redistribution without using the device of annuities.
 
 Let us therefore consider each of these elements in turn to see how far, if at all, each can be justified. It will facilitate our analysis, I believe, if we consider them in reverse order.
 
 I. Income redistribution. The present OASI program in..
 
 volves two major kinds ofredistribution; from some OASI ben eficiaries to others; from the general taxpayer to OASI beneficiaries.
 
 The first kind of redistribution is primarily from those who entered the system relatively young, to those who entered it at an advanced age. The latter are receiving, and will for some time be receiving, a greater amount as benefits than the taxes they paid could have purchased. Under present tax and benefit 184 CAPITALISM AND FREED0 M schedules, on the other hand, those who entered the system at a young age will receive decidedly less.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
