Monopoly andSocial Responsibility 123 the importance of the big versus the small,ofwhich the preced ing point is only a particular manifestation. Finally, the main characteristicofour societyis taken to beits industrialcharacter.
 
 This leads to overemphasis of the manufacturing sector of the economy, which accounts for only about one-quarter of output or employment. And monopoly is far more prevalent in manu facturing than in other sectors of the economy.
 
 The over-estimation ofthe importanceofmonopoly is accom panied,for much the same reClsons, by an over-estimation of the importance of those technological changes that promote mo..
 
 nopoly by comparison with those that extend competition. FOI example, the spread of mass production has been greatl} stressed. The developments in transportation and communica tion that have promoted competition by reducing the impor tance of local regional markets and widening the scope within which competition could take place have been given much less attention. The growing concentration of the automobile in dustry is a commonplace; growth of the trucking industry which reduces dependence on large railroads passes with little notice; sodoes the declining concentration in the steel industry.
 
 2. Monopoly in Labor There is a similar tendency to over estimatethe importanceofmonopolyonthesideoflabor.Labor unionsinclude roughlyaquarteroftheworkingpopulationand this greatlyoverestimatesthe importanceofunions on the struc ture of wages. Many unions are utterly ineffective. Even the strong and powerful unions have only a limited effect on the wage structure. Itis evenclearerfor laborthanfor industrywhy there is a strong tendency to overestimate the importance of monopoly. Given a labor union, any wage increase will come through the union, even though it may not be a consequence of the union organization. The wages of domestic servants have risen very greatly in recent years. Had there been a union of domestic servants, the increase would have come through the union and would have been attributed to it.
 
 This is not to say that unions are unimportant. Like enter prise monopoly, they play a significant and meaningful role making many wage rates differentfrom what the market alone wouldestablish. Itwouldbeasmuchamistaketo underestimate 124 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM as to overestimate their importance.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
