A few brief calculations suggest also that this proposal could be far less costly in money, let alone in the degree of govern mental intervention involved, than our present collection of welfare measures. Alternatively, these calculations can be re garded as showing how wasteful our present measures are, judged as measures for helping the poor.
 
 In 1961, government amounted to something like $33 billion (federal, state, and local) on direct welfare payments and programs of all kinds: old age assistance, social security benefit payments, aid to dependent children, general assistance, farm price support programs, public housing, etc.! I have excluded veterans'benefitsinmakingthiscalculation.Ihavealsomadeno allowance for the direct and indirect costs of such measures as minimum-wage laws, tariffs, licensing provisions, and so on, or for the costs of public health activities, state and local expend itures on hospitals, mental institutions, and the like.
 
 There are approximately 57 million ~onsumer units (unat tached individuals and families) in the United States. The 1961 expenditures of $33 billion would have financed outright cash grants of nearly $6,000 per consumer unit to the 10 per cent with the lowest incomes. Such grants would have raised their incomes above the average for all units in the United States.
 
 Alternatively, these expenditures would have financed grants of nearly $3,000 per consumer unit to the 20 per cent with the lowest incomes. Even ifone went sofar as that one-third whom New Dealers were fond of calling ill-fed, ill-housed, and ill clothed, 1961 expenditureswould havefinanced grantsofnearly $2,000 per consumer unit, roughly the sum which, after allow ing for the change in the level of prices, was the income which separated the lower one-third in the middle 1930'S from the 1This figure is equal to government transfer payments ($31.1 billion) less vet erans' benefits ($4.8 billion), both from the Deparunent of Commerce national income accounts, plus federal expenditures on the agricultural program ($5.5 bil lion) plus federal expenditures on public housing and other aids to housing ($0.5 billion), both for year ending June 30, 1961 from Treasury accounts, plus a rough allowance of $0.' billion to raise it to even billions and to allow for ad ministrative costs of federal programs, omitted state and local programs, and mis cellaneous items. My guess is that this figure is a substantial underestimate.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
