Their achievements were the productofindividualgenius,ofstronglyheld minorityviews,of asocial climate permitting variety and diversity.
 
 Government can never duplicate the variety and diversity of individualaction.Atanymomentintime,byimposinguniform standards in housing, or nutrition, or clothing, government could undoubtedly improve the level of living of many individ uals; by imposing uniform standards in schooling, road con struction, or sanitation, central government could undoubtedly improve the level of performance in many local areas and per haps even on the average of all communities. But in the proc ess, government would replace progress by stagnation, it would substitute uniform mediocrity for the variety essential for that experimentation which can bring tomorrow's laggards above today's mean.
 
 Thisbookdiscussessomeofthesegreatissues.Itsmajortheme is the role of competitive capitalism- the organization of the bulk of economic activity through private enterprise operating inafree market- asasystemofeconomicfreedom andaneces sary condition for political freedom. Its minor theme is the role that government should play in a society dedicated to free dom and relying primarily on the marketto organize economic activity.
 
 The first two chapters deal with these issues on an abstract level, in terms of principles rather than concrete application.
 
 The later chapters apply these principles to a variety of particu lar problems.
 
 An abstract statement can conceivably be complete and ex haustive, though this ideal is certainly far from realized in the two chapters that follow. The application of the principles can not even conceivably be exhaustive. Each day brings new prob lems and new circumstances. That is why the role of the state can never be spelled out once and for all in terms of specific functions. Itisalsowhyweneedfromtimetotimetore-examine Introduction 5 the bearing of what we hope are unchanged principles on the problems of the day.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
