There were some general occupations, such as general agricultural work, which mem bers of various castes might engage in. These permitted an ad justment of the supply of people in different occupations to the demandfortheirservices.
 
 Currently, tariffs, fair-trade laws, import quotas, production quotas, trade union restrictions on employment and so on are examplesofsimilarphenomena.Inallthesecases,governmental authority determines the conditions under which particular in dividuals can engage in particular activities, which is tosay, the terms on which some individuals are permitted to make ar rangements with others. The common feature of these exam ples, as well as of licensure, is that the legislation is enacted on behalfofaproducergroup. For licensure, theproducergroup is generally a craft. For the other examples, it may be a group producing a particular product which wants a tariff, a group of small retailers who would like to be protectedfrom competition by the "chiseling" chain stores" or a group of oil producers, of farmers, or of steel workers.
 
 Occupationallicensure isby nowvery widespread. According to \Valter Gellhorn, who has written the best brief survey I know, "By 1952 more than 80 separate occupations exclusive of 'owner-businesses,' like restaurants and taxicab companies, had been licensed by state law; and in addition to the state laws there are municipal ordinances in abundance, not to mention the federal statutes that require the licensing of such diverse occupations as radio operators and stockyard commission agents. As long ago as 1938 a single state, North Carolina, had extended its law to 60 occupations. One may notbe surprised to learn that pharmacists, accountants, and dentists have been reached by state law as have sanitarians and psychologists, as sayers and architects, veterinarians and librarians. But with what joy of discovery does one learn about the licensing of threshing machine operators and dealers in scrap tobacco?
 
 What of egg graders and guide dog trainers, pest controllers and yacht salesmen, tree surgeons and well diggers, tile layers and potato growers? And what of the hypertrichologists who are licensed in Connecticut, where they remove excessive and CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM unsightly hair with the solemnity appropriate to their high sounding title?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
