It is, of course, dubious that one should go very far to protect in advance against fraud be cause of the interference with voluntary contracts involved in doing so. But I do not think that one can rule out on grounds of principle the possibility that there may be certain activities that are so likely to give rise to fraud as to render it desirable to have in advance a list of people known to be pursuing this activity. Perhaps one example along these lines is the registra tion of taxicab drivers. A taxicab driver picking up a person at night may be in a particularly good position to steal from him.
 
 To inhibit such practices, it may be desirable to have a list of names of people who are engaged in the taxicab business, to give each a number, and to require that this number be put in the cab so that anyone molested need only remember the num ber of the cab. This involves simply the use of the police power to protect individuals against violence on the partof other indi viduals and may be the most convenient method of doing so.
 
 Certification is much more difficult to justify. The reason is that this is something the private market generally can do for itself. This problem is the same for products as for people's services. There are private certification agencies in many areas that certify the competenceofaperson orthequalityofapartic ularproduct. The GoodHousekeeping seal is aprivatecertifica tion arrangement. For industrial products there are private testing laboratories that will certify to the qualityofaparticular product. For consumer products, there are consumer testing agencies ofwhich Consumer'sUnion and Consumer's Research are thebestknown in theUnited States.BetterBusinessBureaus are voluntary organizations that certify the quality ofparticular dealers. Technical schools, colleges, and universities certify the quality of their graduates. One function of retailers and depart ment stores is to certify the quality of the many items they selL The consumer develops confidence in the store, and the store in turn has an incentive to earn this confidence by investigating the quality of the items it sells.
 
 One can however argue that in some cases,or perhapseven in many, voluntary certification will not be carried as far as indi viduals would be willing to pay for carrying it because of the Occupational Licensure 147 difficulty of keeping the certification confidential.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
