All this has been the product of the initiative and drive of individuals co-operating through thefree market. Government measureshavehampered not helped this development. We have been able to afford and surmount these measures only because of the extraordinary fe cundity ofthe market.The invisiblehand has beenmore potent for progress than the visiblehandfor retrogression.
 
 Is it an accident that so many of the governmental reforms of recent decades have gone awry, that the bright hopes have turned to ashes? Is it simply because the programs are faulty in detail?
 
 I believe the answer is clearly in the negative. The central de fect of these measures is that they seek through government to force people to act against their own immediate interests in order to promote a supposedly general interest.They seek to re solve what is supposedly a conflict of interest, or a difference in view about interests, not by establishing a framework that will eliminate the conflict, or by persuading people to have different interests, but by forcing people to act against their own interest.
 
 They substitute the values of outsiders for the values of partici pants; either some telling others what is good for them, or the government takingfrom sometobenefitothers.Thesemeasures are thereforecounteredbyoneofthestrongestandmostcreative forces known to man- the attempt by millions of individuals to promote their own interests, to live their lives by their own values.This is the major reason why the measures have so often had the opposite of the effects intended. It is also one of the major strengthsofafree societyandexplainswhygovernmental regulationdoesnotstrangleit.
 
 The interests of which I speak are not simply narrow self regarding interests. On the contrary, they include the whole range ofvalues that men hold dear and for which they are will ingtospendtheirfortunes andsacrificetheir lives.TheGermans who lost their lives opposingAdolfHitlerwerepursuingtheir interests as they saw them. So also are the men and women who devote great effort and time to charitable, educational,and religious activities. Naturally, such interests are the major ones for few men. It is the virtue of a free society that it nonetheless permits these interests full scope and does not subordinate them Conclusion 201 to the narrow materialistic interests that dominate the bulk of mankind.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
