Because under present economic conditions, in order for a hospital to operate it must have asupply ofinterns. Under most state licensure laws, candi dates must have some internship experience to be admitted to practice, and internship must be in an "approved" hospital.The list of "approved" hospitals is generally identical with that of theCouncilonMedicalEducationandHospitals. Consequently, the licensure law gives the profession control over hospitals as well as over schools. This is the key to the AMA's largely suc cessful opposition to various types of group practice. In a few cases, the groups have been able to survive. In the District of Columbia, tIley succeeded because they were able to bring suit against the American Medical Association under the federal Sherman antitrust laws, and won the suit. In a few other cases, they have succeeded for special reasons. There is, however, no doubt that the tendency toward group practice has been greatly retarded by the AMA's opposition.
 
 It is interesting, and this is an aside, that the medical associa tion is against only one type of group practice, namely, prepaid group practice. The economic reason seems to be that this elim inates the possibility of engaging in discriminatory pricing.8 Itisclearthatlicensurehasbeenatthecoreoftherestrictionof entry and that this involves a heavy social cost, both to the individuals who want to practice medicine but are prevented from doing so and to the public deprived of the medical care it wants to buy and ispreventedfrom buying. Letme now ask the question: Does licensure have the good effects that it is said to have?
 
 In thefirst place,does itreallyraise standardsof competence?
 
 Itis by no means clear that it does raise the standardsof compe tence in the actual practice of the profession for several reasons.
 
 In the first place, whenever you establish a block to entry into any field, you establish an incentive to find ways of getting around it, and of course medicine is no exception. The rise of the professions of osteopathy and of chiropractic is not unre lated to the restriction of entry into medicine. On the contrary, each of these represented, to some extent, an attempt to find a 8See Reuben Kessel, c'Price Discrimination in Medicine," The Journal of Law and Economics, Vol. I (October, 1958), 20-53.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
