So far as I know, none of the people who have been in favor of socialism and also in favor of freedom have really faced up to this issue, or made even a respectable start at developing the institutional arrangements that would permit freedom under socialism. By contrast, it is clear how a free market capitalist society fosters freedom.
 
 A strikingpractical example of these abstract principles is the experience of Winston Churchill. From 1933 to the outbreak of World War II, Churchill was not permitted to talk over the British radio, which was, ofcourse, agovernmentmonopoly ad ministered by the British Broadcasting Corporation. Here was a leading citizen of his country, a Member of Parliament, a former cabinet minister, a man who was desperately trying by everydevicepossibletopersuadehis countrymen to take stepsto wardoffthemenaceofHitler'sGermany.He was notpermitted totalkoverthe radiotothe Britishpeoplebecausethe BBCwasa governmentmonopoly and his position was too "controversial".
 
 Another striking example, reported in the January 26, 1959 issue of Time, has to do with the "Blacklist Fadeout". Says the Time story, The Oscar-awarding ritual is Hollywood's biggest pitch for dig nity, but two years ago dignity suffered. When one Robert Rich was announced as top writer for the The Brave On~, he never stepped forward. Robert Rich was a pseudonym, masking one of about ISO writers ... blacklisted by the industry since 1947 as suspected Communists or fellow travelers. The case was particularly embarrassing because the Motion Picture Academy had barred any Communist or Fifth Amendment pleader from Oscar competition.
 
 Last week both the Communist rule and the mystery of Rich's identityweresuddenly rescripted.
 
 Rich turned out to be Dalton (Johnny Got His Gun) Trumbo, one of the original "Hollywood Ten" writers who refused to testify at the 1947 hearings on Communism in the movie industry. Said producer Frank King, who had stoutly insisted that Robert Rich was "a young guy in Spain with a beard": "We have an obliga tion to our stockholders to buy the best script we can. Trumbo brought us The Brave One and we bought it"....
 
 In effect it was the formal end of the Hollywood black list. For barred writers, the informal end came long ago. At least 15% of cur- 20 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM rent Hollywood films are reportedly written by blacklist members.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
