134 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM they are justified in placing on themselves or their stockholders to servethat socialinterest? Isittolerable that thesepublicfunc tions of taxation, expenditure, and control be exercised by the people who happen at the moment to be in charge ofparticular enterprises, chosen for those posts by strictly private groups?
 
 If businessmen are civil servants rather than the employees of their stockholdersthen inademocracy theywill,soonerorlater, be chosen bythepublictechniques ofelection and appointment.
 
 Andlongbeforethisoccurs,theirdecision-makingpowerwill have been taken away from them. A dramatic illustration was by u.s.
 
 the cancellation of a steel price increase Steel in April 1962 through the medium of apublic display of anger by Presi dent Kennedy and threats of reprisals on levels ranging from anti-trust suits to examination of the tax reports of steel execu tives. This was a striking episode because of the public display of the vast powers concentrated in Washington. We were all made aware of how much of the power needed for a police state was already available. It illustrates the present point as well. If the price of steel is a public decision, as the doctrine of social responsibility declares, then it cannot be permitted to be madeprivately.
 
 The particular aspect of the doctrine which this example illustrates, and which has been most prominent recently, is an alleged social responsibility of business and labor to keep prices and wage rates down in order to avoid price inflation. Suppose that at a time when there was upward pressure on prices ultimately ofcourse reflectingan increase inthe stockofmoney - every businessman and labor leader were to accept this re sponsibility and suppose all could succeed in keeping any price from rising, so we had voluntary price and wage control with out open inflation. What would be the result? Clearly product shortages,laborshortages,graymarkets,blackmarkets. Ifprices arenotallowed torationgoodsandworkers,theremustbesome other means to do so. Can the alternative rationing schemes be private? Perhapsforatimeinasmallandunimportantarea. But if the goods involved are many and important, there will neces sarily be pressure, and probably irresistible pressure,for govern mental rationing of goods, a governmental wage policy, and governmental measures for allocating and distributing labor.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
