That is why capitalist societies are less materialistic than collectivistsocieties.
 
 Why is it, in light ofthe record, that the burden of proofstill seems to rest on those of us who oppose new government pro grams and who seek to reduce the already unduly large role of government? Let Dicey answer: "The beneficial effect of State intervention, especially in the form of legislation, is direct, im mediate, and, so to speak, visible, whilst its evil effects are grad ual and indirect, and lie out of sight.... Nor ... do most people keep in mind that State inspectors may be incompetent, careless, or even occasionally corrupt . . . ; few are those who realize the undeniable truth that State help kills self-help.
 
 Hence the majority of mankind must almost of necessity look with unduefavor upon governmentalintervention.Thisnatural bias can becounteractedonlybytheexistence,ina givensociety, ... ofapresumptionorprejudice in favor ofindividual liberty, that is, of laissez-faire. The mere decline, therefore, of faith in self-help- and that such a decline has taken place is certain isofitselfsufficientto accountfor thegrowthoflegislationtend ingtowardssocialism." 1 The preservation and expansion of freedom are today threat ened from two directions. The one threat is obvious and clear.
 
 It is the external threat coming from the evil men in the Krem lin who promise to bury us. The other threat is far more subtle.
 
 Itistheinternal threatcomingfrom men ofgood intentionsand good will who wish to reform us. Impatient with the slowness of persuasion and example to achieve the great social changes they envision, they are anxious to use the power of the state to achieve their ends and confident of their own ability to do so.
 
 Yet if they gained the power, they would fail to achieve their immediate aims and, in addition" would produce a collective state from which they would recoil in horror and of which they would be among the first victims. Concentrated power is not rendered harmless by the good intentions ofthose who create it.
 
 The two threats unfortunately reinforce one another. Even if we avoid a nuclear holocaust, the threat from the Kremlin re quires us to devote a sizable fraction of our resources to our 1A. V. Dicey, op.cit., pp. 257-8.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
