There hasn’t been enough investment in people’s education and skills because it’s a new idea and people don’t like thinking about investing in people the same way they do in physical things like machines or buildings. Also, people often criticize these kinds of deals even if everyone agrees to them, and there are laws and rules that stop companies like life insurance firms, which could help, from making these kinds of investments.

The rewards for investing in people, especially if you start early, are really big—big enough that it would be worth spending a lot of money to manage these investments. For some reason, the market isn’t working perfectly, so not enough money is being put into human skills and education. That means the government might have a good reason to step in, either because the costs of managing these investments are too high or because the market has problems and blocks that need fixing.

If the government does get involved, how should it do it? So far, the only way it has helped is by giving money directly to pay for job training or professional schooling. But this way isn’t really the best. Investment should go up to the point where the extra benefits cover the costs and give a fair return. When you invest in a person, the extra benefit is that they can earn more money later. In a private market, the person would get this extra money as their income. If the government pays for the training instead, the person doesn’t pay any cost. If everyone got these subsidies, it could cause problems.

It’s interesting to think about how a business like this could work and how it could make money. The first companies to get involved could pick the best people to invest in by setting high standards. This would make their investments more profitable because people would trust the quality of the people they helped train. For example, having “Training paid for by XYZ Insurance Company” could become a sign of quality, like a stamp of approval that attracts customers. The company could also offer other services to the professionals it supports, like doctors, lawyers, and dentists.
