The practical arguments seem to me much too weak to outweigh the objection of principle.
 
 SEGREGATION IN SCHOOLING Segregation in schooling raises a particular problem not covered by the previous comments for one reason only. The reason is that schooling is, under present circumstances, pri marily operated and administered by government. This means that government must make an explicit decision. It must either enforce segregation or enforce integration. Both seem to me bad solutions. Those of us who believe that color of skin is an irrelevant characteristic and that it is desirable for all to recognize this, yet who also believe in individual freedom, are therefore faced with a dilemma. If one must choose between the evils of enforced segregation or enforced integration, I myself would find it impossible not to choose integration.
 
 The preceding chapter, written initially without any regard at all to the problem of segregation or integration, gives the appropriate solution that permits the avoidance of both evils a nice illustration of how arrangements designed to enhance freedom in general cope with problems of freedom in particu lar. The appropriate solution is to eliminate government oper ation of the schools and permit parents to choose the kind of school they want their children to attend. In addition, of course, we should all of us, insofar as we possibly can, try by behavior and speech to foster the growth of attitudes and opinions that would lead mixed schools to become the rule and segregated schools therare exception.
 
 Ifa proposal like that of the preceding chapter were adopted.~ it would permit a variety of schools to develop, some all white, some all Negro, some mixed. It would permit the transition from one collection of schools to another- hopefully to mixed schools- to be gradual as community attitudes changed. It would avoid the harsh political conflict that has been doing so much to raise social tensions and disrupt the community. It 118 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM would in this special area, as the tnarket does in general, permit co-operation without conformity.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
