Monopoly andSocialResponsibility 133 Of course, so long as the individual income tax is as highly graduated as it is now, there is strongpressure to find devices to evade itsimpact. In this way as well as directly, thehighlygrad uated income tax constitutes a serious impediment to the effi cientuse ofourresources.The appropriatesolutionis thedrastic scalingdown of the higherrates, combined with an elimination ofthe avoidance devices thathave been incorporated inthe law.
 
 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIlY OF BUSINESS AND LABOR The viewhas been gaining widespread acceptance that corpo rate officials and labor leaders have a "socialresponsibility" that goes beyond serving the interest of their stockholders or their members. This view shows afundamental misconception ofthe character and nature of a free economy. In such an economy, there is one and only one social responsibility of business- to use its resources and engage in activities designed to increase its profits so long as it stays within the rules of the game, which is to say, engages in open and free competition,withoutdeception or fraud. Similarly, the "social responsibility" of labor leaders is to serve the interests of the members of their unions. It is the responsibility of the rest of us to establish a framework of law such that an individual in pursuing his own interest is, to quote Adam Smith again, "led by an invisible hand to promote an end which was no part of his intention. Nor is it always the worse for the society that it was no part of it. By pursuing his own interest, he frequently promotes that of the society more effectually than when he really intends to promote it. I have never known much good done by those who affected to trade for the public good." 4 Few trends could so thoroughly undermine the very founda tions of our free society as the acceptance by corporate officials of a social responsibility other than to make as much money for theirstockholdersaspossible.Thisisafundamentally subversive doctrine. If businessmen do have a social responsibility other than making maximum profits for stockholders, how are they to know what it is? Can self-selected private individuals decide what the social interest is? Can they decide how great a burden 4Ibid, Ek. IV, chapter ii, p. 421.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
