Their fundamental protection was the existence of a private market economy in which they could earn aliving. Here again, the protection was not absolute. Many potential private em ployerswere,rightlyorwrongly,averse tohiringthosepilloried.
 
 It may well be that there was far less justification for the costs imposed on many ofthe people involved than for the costs gen erally imposed on people who advocate unpopular causes. But the important point is that the costs were limited and not pro hibitive, as they would have been if government employment had been the only possibility.
 
 It is ofinterest to note that a disproportionately large fraction of the people involved apparently went into the most competi tive sectors of the economy - small business, trade, farming wherethe market approaches mostclosely the idealfree market.
 
 No one who buys bread knows whether the wheat from which itismadewasgrownbyaCommunistoraRepublican,byacon stitutionalist or a Fascist, or, for that matter, by a Negro or a white. This illustrates how an impersonal market separates eco nomic activities from political views and protects men from being discriminated against in their economic activities for rea sons that are irrelevant to their productivity- whether these reasons are associated with their views or their color.
 
 As this example suggests, the groups in our society that have the most at stake in the preservation and strengthening of com petitive capitalism are those minority groups which can most easilybecome the objectofthe distrust and enmity ofthe major ity-the Negroes, the Jews, the foreign-born, to mention only the most obvious. Yet, paradoxically enough, the enemies of the free market- the Socialists and Communists- have been recruitedindisproportionatemeasurefrom thesegroups.Instead of recognizing that the existence of the market has protected them from the attitudes of their fellow countrymen, they mis takenly attribute the residual discrimination to the market.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
