But let us suppose this act of self-denial to be achieved. For advocacy of capitalism to mean anything, the proponents must be able to finance their cause- tohold public meetings, publish pamphlets,buyradio time,issuenewspapersandmagazines,and soon. Howcould they raise thefunds? There mightand proba bly would be men in the socialist society with large incomes, perhaps even large capital sums in the form of government bonds and the like, but these would of necessity be high public officials. It is possible to conceive of a minor socialist official re taininghis jobalthough openly advocatingcapitalism. It strains credulity to imagine the socialist top brass financing such "sub versive" activities.
 
 The only recourse for funds would be to raise small amounts fromalargenumberofminorofficials. Butthisisnorealanswer.
 
 To tap these sources, many people would already have to be persuaded,andourwholeproblemishowtoinitiateand finance a campaign to do so. Radical movements in capitalist societies have never been financed this way. They have typically been supported by a few wealthy individuals who have become per suaded- by a Frederick Vanderbilt Field, or an Anita McCor mick Blaine, or a Corliss Lamont, to mention a few names recentlyprominent,orby aFriedrich Engels,togofartherback.
 
 This is a role of inequality of wealth in preserving political freedom that is seldom noted- the role ofthe patron.
 
 In a capitalist society, it is only necessary to convince a few wealthypeopletogetfunds tolaunchany idea,howeverstrange, and there are many such persons, many independent foci of support.And,indeed, itisnoteven necessary topersuadepeople or financial institutions with available funds of the soundness of the ideas to be propagated. It is only necessary to persuade them thatthepropagation can befinancially successful; that the newspaper or magazine or book or other venture will be profit able. The competitive publisher, for example, cannot afford to publishonlywritingwith whichhepersonallyagrees;his touch stone must be the likelihood that the market will be large enough to yield a satisfactory return on his investment.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
