Even this statement cannot be taken com pletely for granted. Many governments subsidized universities long before they subsidized lower schools. What forms of edu cation have the greatest social advantage and how much of the community's limited resources should be spent on them must be decided by the judgment of the community expressed through its accepted political channels. The aim of this analysis is not to decide these questions for the community but rather to clarify the issues involved in making a choice, in particular whether it is appropriate to make tIle choice on a communal rather than individual basis.
 
 As we have seen, both the imposition of a minimum re quired level of schooling and the financing of this schooling by the state can be justified by the "neighborhood effects" of schooling. A third step, namely the actual administration of educational institutions by the government, the "nationaliza tion," as it were, of the bulk of the "education industry" is much more difficult to justify on these, or, so far as I can see, any other, grounds. The desirability of such nationalization has seldom been faced explicitly. Governments have, in the main,financed schoolingbypayingdirectly thecosts ofrunning educational institutions. Thus this step seemed required by the decision to subsidize schooling. Yet the two steps could readily be separated. Governments could require a minimum level of schooling financed by giving parents vouchers redeemable for a specified maximum sum per child per year if spent on "ap proved" educational services. Parents would then be free to spend this sum and any additional sum they themselves pro vided on purchasing educational services from an "approved" institution of their own choice. The educational services could be rendered by private enterprises operated for profit, or by non-profit institutions. The role of the government would be limited to insuring that the schools met certain minimum standards, such as the inclusion of a minimum common con tent in their programs, much as it now inspects restaurants to insure that they maintain minimum sanitary standards. An excellent example of a program of this sort is the United States educational program for veterans after World War II. Each veteran who qualified was given a maximum sum per year 90 CAPITALISM AND FREED0 ~f that could be spent at any institution of his choice, provided it met certain minimum standards.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
