Why should there be a connection? What are the logical links between economic and political freedom? In dis cussing these questions we shall consider first the market as a direct component offreedom, and then the indirect relation be tweenmarketarrangementsandpoliticalfreedom. A by-product will be an outline ofthe ideal economic arrangements for afree society.
 
 As liberals, we take freedom ofthe individual, or perhaps the family, as our ultimate goal in judging social arrangements.
 
 Freedomas avaluein thissensehas todowith theinterrelations amongpeople;ithasnomeaningwhatsoeverto aRobinsonCru soe on an isolated island (without his Man Friday). Robinson Crusoe on his island is subject to "constraint," he has limited "power," and he has only a limited number of alternatives, but there is no problem of freedom in the sense that is relevant to our discussion. Similarly, in a society freedom has nothing to say about what an individual does with his freedom; it is not an all-embracing ethic. Indeed, a major aim of the liberal is to leavethe ethicalproblemfor the individual towrestle with. The "really" important ethical problems are those that face an indi vidual in a free society- what he should do with his freedom.
 
 There arethus twosetsofvalues thataliberal willemphasize the values that are relevant to relations among people, which is the context in which he assigns first priority to freedom; and the values that are relevant to the individual in the exercise of his freedom, which is the realm of individual ethics and philosophy.
 
 The liberal conceives of men as imperfect beings. He regards theproblemofsocialorganizationtobeasmuchanegativeprob lemofpreventing"bad"peoplefrom doingharm as ofenabling "good" people to do good; and, of course, "bad" and "good" people may be the same people, depending on who is judging them.
 
 Thebasicproblemofsocialorganizationishowto co-ordinate the economic activities of large numbers of people. Even in relatively backward societies, extensive division of labor and specialization of function is required to make effective use of available resources. In advanced societies, the scale on which co- EconomicFreedom andPoliticalFreedom 13 ordination is needed, to takefull advantage of the opportunities offered by modern science and technology, is enormously greater.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
