At most, only the excess adds to his income. And finally, even this residual of a residual overstates the gain since the effect of tIle program has been to keep more people on the farm than would otherwise have stayed there.
 
 Only the excess, if any, of what they can earn on the farm with the price-support program over what they can earn off the farm, is a net benefit to them. The main effect of the purchase program has simply been to make farm output larger, not to raise the income perfarmer.
 
 Some of the costs of the farm purchase program are so obvi ous and well-known as to need little more than mention: the consumer has paid twice, once in taxes for farm benefit pay ments, again by paying a higher price for food; the farmer has been saddled with onerous restrictions and detailed centralized control; the nation has been saddled with a spreading bureauc racy. There is, however, one set of costs which is less well known. The farm program has been a major hindrance in the pursuitofforeign policy. In order tomaintain ahigherdomestic than world price, it has been necessary to impose quotas on im ports for many items. Erratic changes in our policy have had serious adverseeffects onothercountries.Ahigh pricefor cotton encouraged other countries to enlarge their cotton production.
 
 When our high price led to an unwieldy stock of cotton, we proceeded toselloverseasatlowpricesand imposed heavylosses on the producers whom we had by our earlier actions encour aged to expand output. The list of similar cases could be multiplied.
 
 OLD AGE AND SURVIVOR'S INSURANCE The "social security" program isone ofthose things on which the tyranny of the status quo is beginning to work its magic.
 
 Despite the controversy that surrounded its inception, it has come to be so much taken for granted that its desirability is hardly questioned any longer. Yet it involves a large-scale in vasion into tIle personal lives of a large fraction of the nation without, so far as I can see, any justification that is at all persua sive, not only on liberal principles, but on almost any other. I Social Welfare Measures 183 propose to examine the biggest phase of it, that which involves payments to the aged.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
