I do not see any grounds-liberal or other- on which this particular redistribution can be defended. The subsidy to the beneficiariesis independent oftheir poverty or wealth; the man ofmeansreceivesitasmuch as theindigent.Thetaxwhichpays the subsidy is a flat-rate tax on earnings up to a maximum. It constitutes a larger fraction of low incomes than ofhigh. What conceivable justification is there for taxing the young to sub sidize the old regardless of the economic status of the old; for imposing a higher rate of tax for this purpose on the low in comes than on the high; or, for that matter, for raising the revenues to pay the subsidy by a tax on payrolls?
 
 The second kind of redistribution arises because the system is not likely to be fully self-financing. During the period when many were covered and paying taxes, andfew had qualifiedfor benefits, the system appeared to be self-financing and indeed to be having a surplus. But this appearance depends on neglecting the obligation being accumulated with respect to the persons paying the tax. It is doubtful that the taxes paid have sufficed to finance the accumulated obligation. Many experts assert that even on a cash basis, a subsidy will be required. And such asubsidygenerallyhasbeenrequired insimilar systemsinother countries. This is a highly technical matter which we cannot and need not go into here and about which there can be honest differences of opinion.
 
 For our purpose, it is enough to ask only the hypothetical question whether a subsidy from the general taxpayer could be justified if it is required. I see no grounds on which such a subsidy can be justified. We may wish to help poor people. Is there any justification for helping peoplewhether they are poor or not because they happen to be a certain age? Is this not an entirely arbitrary redistribution?
 
 The only argument I have ever come across to justify the re distribution involved in GASI isonethat Iregard asthoroughly immoral despite its wide use. This argument is that OASI re distribution on the average helps low-income people more than high-income people despite a large arbitrary element; that it Social Welfare Measures I8S would be better to do this redistribution more efficiently; but that the community will not vote for the redistribution directly though it will vote for it as part of a social security package.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
