The specific conditions attached to patents and copyrights- for example, the grant ofpatentprotectionfor sev enteenyearsratherthan someotherperiod- are notamatterof principle. They are matters of expediency to be determined by practical considerations. I am myself inclined to believe that a much shorter period ofpatent protection would be preferable.
 
 But this is a casual judgment on a subject on which there has been much detailed study and on which much more is needed.
 
 Hence, it is deserving of little confidence.
 
 THE SOURCESOFMONOPOLY There are three major sources of monopoly: "technical" con siderations, direct and indirect governmental assistance, and private collusion.
 
 I. Technical Considerations As pointed out in chapter ii, monopoly arises to some extent because technical considerations make it more efficient or economical to have a single enterprise rather than many. The most obvious example is a telephone system, water system, and the like in an individual community.
 
 There is unfortunately no good solution for technical monop oly. There is only a choice among three evils: private unregu lated monopoly, private monopoly regulated by the state, and governmentoperation.
 
 It seems impossible to state as a general proposition that one of these evils is uniformly preferable to another. As stated in chapter ii, the great disadvantage of either governmental regu lation or governmental operation of monopoly is that it is ex ceedingly difficult to reverse. In consequence, I am inclined to urge that the least of the evils is private unregulated monopoly wherever this is tolerable. Dynamic changes are highly likely to undermine it and there is at least some chance that these will be allowed to have their effect. And even in the short run, there is generally a wider range of substitutes than there seems to be at first blush, so private enterprises are fairly narrowly limited in the extent to which it is profitable to keep prices above cost.
 
 Moreover, as we have seen, the regulatory agencies often tend themselves to fall under the control of the producers and so Monopoly andSocial Responsibility 129 prices may not be any lower with regulation than without regulation.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
