Inafew weeksormonths, when thesituationhadstabilized, thesuspension couldbelifted, andrecoverybeginwithoutmonetarycontraction.
 
 Aswehave seen,oneofthe major reasons for establishingthe Fe~eralReserve Systemwas todealwith such asituation. Itwas given the power to create more cash if a widespread demand should arise on the part of the public for currency instead of deposits, and was given the means to make the cash available to banks on the security of the bank's assets. In this way, it was expected that any threatened panic could be averted, that there wouldbenoneedforsuspensionof convertibilityofdepositsinto currency,andthatthedepressingeffectsofmonetarycrisescould be entirely avoided.
 
 Thefirst needfor thesepowersandhencethefirst testoftheir efficacy came in November and December of 1930 as a result of the string of bank closings already described. The Reserve Sys tem failed the test miserably. It did little or nothing to provide the banking system with liquidity, apparently regarding the bank closings as calling for no special action. It is worth em phasizing, however, that the System's failure was a failure of will, not of power. On this occasion, as on the later ones that followed,theSystemhadamplepowertoprovidethebankswith the cash their depositors were demanding. Had this been done, the bank closings would have been cut short and the monetary debacle averted.
 
 The initial waveofbankfailures died down and inearly 1931 there were signs of returning confidence. The Reserve System took advantage of the opportunity to reduce its own credit out standing-which is to say, it offset the naturally expansionary forces by engaging in mild deflationary action. Even so, there wereclearsignsofimprovementnotonlyinthemonetary sector butalsoinothereconomicactivities.Thefiguresforthefirstfour or five months of 1931, if examined without reference to what actuallyfollowed, haveall the earmarks ofthebottomofacycle and the beginningof revival.
 
 The tentative revival was howevershort-lived. Renewed bank failures started another series of runs and again set in train a renewed decline in the stock of money. Again, the Reserve Systemstoodidlyby.Inthefaceofanunprecedentedliquidation The Control of Money 49 of the commercial banking system, the books of the "lender of lastresort" showadecline in the amountof credititmadeavail able toitsmemberbanks.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
