The second proviso is unfortunately not likely to be fully satisfied because of the impossibility of including non-pecuni ary returns mentioned above. In practice, therefore, investment under the plan would still be somewhat too small and would not be distributed in the optimum manner.l !
 
 For several reasons, it would be preferable for private finan cial institutions and non-profit institutions such as foundations and universities to develop this plan. Because of the difficulties involved in estimating the base earnings and the fraction of earnings in excess of the base to be paid to the government, there is great danger that the scheme would turn into a politi cal football. Information on existing earnings in various occu pations would provide only a rough approximation to the values that would render the project self-financing. In addi tion, the base earnings and the fraction should vary from in dividual to individual in accordance with any differences in expected earning capacity that can be predicted in advance, just as life insurance premiums vary among groups that llave different life expectancy.
 
 Insofar as administrative expense is the obstacle to the de velopment of such a plan on a private basis, the appropriate unit of government to make funds available is the federal gov ernment rather than smaller units. Anyone state would llave the same costs as an insurance company, say, in keeping track of the people whom it had financed. These would be mini mized though not completely eliminated for the federal gov ernment. An individual who migrated to another country, for example, might still be legally or morally obligated to pay the agreed-on share of his earnings, yet it might be difficult and expensive to enforce the obligation. Highly successful peo ple might therefore have an incentive to migrate. A similar 11I am indebted to Harry G. Johnson and Paul W. Cook, Jr., for suggesting the inclusion of this qualification. For a fuller discussion of the role of non-pecuniary advantages and disadvantages in de~rmining earnings in different pursuits, see Friedman and Kuznets, loco cit.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
