156 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM way around restriction of entry. Each of these, in turn, is pro ceeding to get itself licensed, and to impose restrictions. The effect is to create different levels and kinds of practice, to dis tinguish between what is called medical practice and substitutes such as osteopathy, chiropractic, faith healing and so on. These alternatives may well be of lower quality than medical practice wouldhave beenwithout therestrictionsonentryintomedicine.
 
 More generally, if the number of physicians is less than it otherwise would be, and if they are all fully occupied, as they generally are, this means that there is a smaller total of medical practice by trained physicians- fewer medical man-hours of practice, as it were. The alternative is untrained practice by somebody; it may and in part must be by people who have no professional qualificationsatall. Moreover,thesituation ismuch more extreme. If "medical practice" is to be limited to licensed practitioners, it is necessary to define what medical practice is, and featherbedding is not sometlling that is restricted to the railroads. Under the interpretation of the statutes forbidding unauthorized practiceofmedicine,many things are restricted to licensed physicians that could perfectly well be done by techni cians,and otherskilledpeoplewhodonothaveaCadillacmedi cal training. I am notenoughofatechnicianto listtheexamples at all fully. I only know that those who have looked into the question saythatthetendency istoincludein"medicalpractice" awiderandwiderrange ofactivities thatcouldperfectlywellbe performed by technicians. Trained physicians devote a consid erable part of their time to things that might well be done by others. The result is to reduce drastically the amount ofmedical care. The relevant average quality of medical care, if one can at allconceiveofthe concept,cannotbeobtainedbysimplyaver aging the quality of care that is given; that would be like judg ing the effectiveness ofa medical treatment by considering only the survivors; one must also allow for the fact that the restric tions reduce the amountofcare.The resultmaywellbe thatthe average level of competence in a meaningful sense has been reduced by the restrictions.
 
 Even these comments do not go far enough, because they consider the situation at a point in time and do not allow for OccupationalLicensure 157 changes over time.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
