It can be argued that private charity is insufficient because the benefits from it accrue to people other than those who make the gifts- again, a neighborhood effect. I am distressed by the sightofpoverty; Iambenefitedbyitsalleviation;butIambene fited equally whether I or someone else pays for its alleviation; the benefits of other people's charity therefore partly accrue to me. To put it differently, we might all of us be willing to con tribute to the relief of poverty, provided everyone else did. We might not be willing to contribute the same amount without suchassurance. In smallcommunities,publicpressurecansuffice to realize the proviso even with private charity. In the large im personal communities that are increasinglycomingto dominate our society, it is much more difficult for it to do so.
 
 Suppose one accepts, as I do, this line of reasoning as justi fying governmental action toalleviatepoverty; toset,as itwere, a floor under the standard of life of every person in the com munity. There remain the questions, how much and how. I see no way ofdeciding"how much" except in terms ofthe amount of taxes we- by which I mean the great bulk of us- are will ingtoimposeonourselvesfor thepurpose.Thequestion,"how," affords more room for speculation.
 
 Two things seem clear. First, if the objective is to alleviate poverty, we should have a program directed at helping the poor. There is every reason to help the poor man who happens to be afarmer, not becauseheis afarmer butbecausehe ispoor.
 
 The program, that is, should be designed to help people as people not as members ofparticular occupational groups or age groups or wage-rate groups or labor organizationsor industries.
 
 This is a defect of farm programs, general old-age benefits, minimum-wage laws, pro-union legislation, tariffs, licensing provisions of crafts or professions, and so on in seemingly end less profusion. Second, so far as possible the program should, \vhile operating through the market, not distort the market or impede its functioning. This is a defect of price supports, mini mum-wage laws, tariffs and the like.
 
 The arrangement that recommends itself on purely mechani- 192 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM cal grounds is a negative income tax.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
