I turn now to consider more specifically, though still in very broad terms,whattheareas arethatcannotbehandled through the market at all, or can be handled only at so great a cost that the use ofpolitical channels may be preferable.
 
 GOVERNMENT AS RULE-MAKER AND UMPIRE Itisimportanttodistinguishtheday-to-dayactivitiesofpeople from the general customary and legal framework within which these take place. The day-to-day activities are like the actions of the participants in agame when they are playing it; the frame work, like the rules of the game they play. And just as a good game requires acceptanceby theplayers both oftherules and of the umpire to interpret and enforce them, so a good society re quiresthatitsmembers agree onthegeneral conditionsthatwill govern relations among them, on some means of arbitrating differentinterpretationsofthese conditions,and on some device for enforcing compliance with the generally accepted rules. As ingames,soalsoinsociety,mostofthegeneralconditionsarethe unintended outcomeofcustom,acceptedunthinkingly.Atmost, weconsiderexplicitlyonlyminormodificationsin them,though the cumulative effect of a series of minor modifications may be adrasticalterationinthecharacterofthegameorof the society.
 
 Inbothgames and society also, no setofrules can prevail unless most participants most of the time conform to them without external sanctions; unless that is, there is a broad underlying social consensus. But we cannot rely on custom or on this con sensus alone to interpret and to enforce the rules; we need an umpire. These then are the basic roles of government in a free society: toprovide ameanswhereby we can modify the rules, to mediate differences among us on the meaning of the rules, and to enforce compliance with the rules on the part of those few who would otherwise not play the game.
 
 The need for government in these respects arises because ab solute freedom is impossible. However attractive anarchy may beasaphilosophy,itis notfeasible in aworld ofimperfectmen.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
