Present labor gets only part of the product." The logical conclusion is presumably "Past la bor is exploited," and the inference for action is that past labor should get more of the product, though it is by no means clear how,unlessitbeineleganttombstones.
 
 The achievement of allocation of resources without compul sion is the major instrumental role in the market place of dis tribution in accordance with product. But it is not the only instrumental role of the resulting inequality. We have noted in chapter i the role that inequality plays in providing independ ent foci of power to offset the centralization of political power, as well as the role that it plays in promoting civil freedom by providing "patrons" to finance the dissemination of unpopular or simply novel ideas. In addition, in the economic sphere, it provides "patrons" to finance experimentation and the develop ment of new products- to buy the first experimental auto mobiles and television sets, let alone impressionist paintings.
 
 Finally,itenablesdistributiontooccurimpersonally withoutthe need for "authority"- a special facet of the general role of the market in effecting co-operation and co-ordination without coercIon.
 
 FACTS OF INCOME DISTRIBUTION A capitalist system involving payment in accordance with productcan be, and in practice is, characterized by considerable inequality of income and wealth. This fact is frequently mis interpreted to mean that capitalism and free enterprise produce wider inequality than alternative systems and, as a corollary, that the extension and development of capitalism has meant increased inequality. This misinterpretation is fostered by the misleading character of most published figures on the distribu tion of income, in particular their failure to distinguish short run from long-runinequality.Letuslookatsomeofthebroader factsaboutthedistributionofincome.
 
 One of the most striking facts which runs counter to many people's expectation has to do with the sources of income. The more capitalistic a country is, the smaller thefraction ofincome paid for the use of what is generally regarded as capital, and The Distribution ofIncome 169 the larger the fraction paid for human services.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
