This is another way of expressing the goal of freedom emphasized in the preceding chapter.
 
 Fromthisstandpoint,theroleofthemarket, as already noted, is that it permits unanimity without conformity; that it is a sys tem of effectively proportional representation. On the other hand, the characteristic feature of action through explicitly po liticalchannelsisthat ittendstorequireortoenforcesubstantial conformity. The typical issue must be decided "yes" or "no"; at most, provision can be made for a fairly limited number of alternatives. Even the use of proportional representation in its explicitlypoliticalform doesnotalterthisconclusion.Thenum berofseparategroupsthatcaninfact berepresented isnarrowly limited,enormouslysoby comparisonwiththeproportionalrep resentation of the market. More important, the fact that the final outcome generally must be a law applicable to all groups, rather than separate legislativeenactmentsfor each "party" rep resented, means that proportional representation in its political version, far from permitting unanimity without conformity, tends toward ineffectiveness and fragmentation. It thereby op erates to destroy any consensus on which unanimity with con formity can rest.
 
 Thereareclearlysome matters with respect to which effective proportional representation is impossible. I cannot get the amountofnational defense Iwant and you, adifferent amount.
 
 With respect to such indivisible matters we can discuss, and argue,andvote. Buthavingdecided,we mustconform. Itispre cisely the existence of such indivisible matters- protection of the individualand the nationfrom coercion are clearly the most basic- that prevents exclusive reliance on individual action through the market. If we are to use some of our resources for such indivisible items, we must employ political channels to reconcile differences.
 
 The use ofpolitical channels, while inevitable, tends to strain thesocialcohesionessentialforastablesociety.Thestrainisleast if agreement for joint action need be reached only on alimited range of issues on which people in any event have common views. Every extension of the range of issues for which explicit agreementissoughtstrainsfurther thedelicatethreadsthathold 24 CAPITALISM AND FREED0 M society together.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
