In September 1931, Britain went off the gold standard. This act was preceded and followed by gold withdrawals from the United States. Although gold had been flowing into the United u.s.
 
 States in the prior two years, and the gold stock and the Federal Reserve gold reserve ratio were at an all time high, the Reserve System reacted vigorously and promptly to the external drain as it had not to the previous internal drain. It did so in a manner that was certain to intensify the internal financial diffi culties. After more than two years of severe economic contrac tion, the System raised the discount rate- the rate of interest at which it stood ready to lend to member banks- more sharply than ithas within sobriefaperiod in its whole history before or since. The measure arrested the gold drain. It was also accom panied by a spectacular increase in bank failures and runs on banks. In the six months from August 1931 through January 1932,roughlyoneoutoften banks inexistencesuspendedopera tions and total deposits in commercial banks fell by IS per cent.
 
 A temporary reversal ofpolicy in 1932involvingthe purchase of $1 billion of government bonds slowed down the rate of decline. Had this measure been taken in 1931, it would almost surely have been sufficient to prevent the debacle just described.
 
 By 1932, it was too late to be more than a palliative and, when the System relapsed into passivity, the temporary improvement wasfollowed by arenewed collapse terminatingin the Banking Holiday of 1933- when every bank in the United States was officially closed for over a week. A system established in large part to prevent a temporary suspension of convertibility of de posits into currency- a measure that had formerly prevented banks from failing- first let nearly a third of the banks of the country go out of existence and then welcomed a suspension of convertibility that was incomparably more sweeping and severe than any earlier suspension. Yet so great is the capacity for self justification that the Federal Reserve Board could write in its annual report for 1933, "The ability of the Federal Reserve Banks to meet enormous demands for currency during the crisis demonstrated the effectiveness of the country's currency 50 CAPITALISM AND FRE~D0 M system under the Federal Reserve Act.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
