... It is difficult to say what the course ofthe depressionwouldhave beenhad the Fed eral Reserve System notpursued apolicy ofliberal open market purchases." All told, from July 1929 to March 1933, the money stock in the United States fell by one-third, and over two-thirds of the decline came after England's departure from the gold standard.
 
 Had the money stock been kept from declining, as it clearly could and should have been, the contraction would have been both shorter and far milder. It might still have been relatively severebyhistoricalstandards.Butitisliterallyinconceivablethat money income could have declined by over one-half and prices byoverone-thirdin the courseoffour yearsifthere had been no decline in the stockofmoney. Iknow of no severedepression in any country or any time that was not accompanied by a sharp decline in the stock of money and equally of no sharp decline in the stock of money that was not accompanied by a severe depression.
 
 The Great Depression in the United States, far from being a sign of the inherent instability of the private enterprise system, is a testament to how much harm can be done by mistakes on thepartofafew menwhentheywieldvastpoweroverthemon etarysystemofacountry.
 
 It may be that these mistakes were excusable on the basis of the knowledge available to men at the time- though I happen to think not. But that is really beside the point. Any system which gives so much power and so much discretion to a few men that mistakes- excusable or not- can have such far reaching effects is a bad system. It is a bad system to believers in freedom just because it gives a few men such power with out any effective check by the body politic- this is the key political argument against an "independent" central bank. But it is a bad system even to those who set securityhigher thanfreedom. Mistakes,excusableornot, cannot be avoided in a system which disperses responsibility yet gives a few men greatpower, and which thereby makes important pol icy actions highly dependent on accidents ofpersonality. This is the key technical argument against an "independent" bank. To The ControlofMoney 51 paraphrase Clemenceau, money is much too serious a matter to belefttothe Central Bankers.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
