To Americans of the time, it clearly did not. The agitation oversilver in the 1880'S, culminating in Bryan's Cross ofGold speechwhich set the tonefor the 1896election,was one signofdissatisfaction.Inturn,theagitationwaslargelyresponsi blefor theseverelydepressedyearsintheearly 185)O's.The agita tion led towidespread fears that the United States would gooff gold and that hence the dollar would lose value in terms of foreign currencies. This led to a flight from the dollar and a capital outflow that forced deflation at home.
 
 Successive financial crises, in 1873, 1884, 1890, and 1893 pro duced a widespread demand for bankingreform on the part of the business and banking community. The panic of 1907, in volving the concerted refusal by banks to convert deposits into currency on demand, finally crystallized the feeling of dissatis faction with the financial system into an urgent demand for governmental action. A National Monetary Commission was established by Congress, and its recommendations, reported in 1910,were embodied in the Federal Reserve Act passed in 1913.
 
 Reformsalong thelinesoftheFederalReserveActhadtheback ingofeverysection ofthecommunity,from theworkingclasses tothebankers,andofbothpoliticalparties.Thechairmanofthe National Monetary Commission was a Republican, Nelson W.
 
 Aldrich; theSenatormainly responsiblefor the Federal Reserve Actwas a Democrat, CarterW. Glass.
 
 The change in monetary arrangements introduced by the FederalReserveActturned outinpracticetobefar moredrastic than was intended by its authors or its supporters. At the time the Act was passed, a gold standard reigned supreme through out the world- not a fully automatic gold standard but some thingfar closer to thatideal than anything wehave experienced since. It was taken for granted that it would continue to do so and thus narrowly limit the powers of the Federal Reserve Sys tem. No sooner was the Act passed than World War I broke out. Therewas alarge-scale abandonment of thegold standard.
 
 By the end of the war, the Reserve System was no longer a minor adjunct to the gold standard designed to insure the con vertibilityofoneform ofmoney intoothers and to regulate and supervisebanks. Ithad becomeapowerful discretionary author- 44 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM ityable to determine thequantity ofmoneyin the United States and to affect international financial conditions throughout the world.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
