CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM as the public get-together for this specific purpose- and have therefore made collusion more expensive. More important, they have reaffirmed common law doctrine that combinations in re straintoftrade are unenforceable in the courts. In various Euro pean countries, the courts will enforce an agreement entered into by agroup ofenterprises to sellonly through a jointselling agency, committing the enterprises to pay specified penalties if they violate the agreement. In the United States, such an agree ment would not be enforceable in the courts. This difference is one ofthe major reasons why cartels have been more stable and widespread in European countries than in the United States.
 
 APPROPRIATE GOVERNMENT POLICY The first and mosturgent necessity in the areaofgovernment policy is the elimination of those measures which directly sup port monopoly, whether enterprise monopoly or labor monop oly, and an even-handed enforcementofthe laws on enterprises and labor unions alike. Both should be subjected to the anti trust laws; both should be treated alike with respect to laws about the destruction of property and about interference with .private activities.
 
 Beyond this, the most important and effective step toward the reduction ofmonopolypowerwould be an extensive reform ofthe tax laws. The corporate tax should be abolished. Whether this is done or not, corporations should be required to attribute to individual stockholders earnings which are not paid out as dividends. That is, when the corporation sends out a dividend check., it should also send a statement saying, "In addition to this dividend of — cents per share, your corporation also earned —cents per share which was reinvested." The indi vidual stockholder should then be required to report the attrib uted but undistributed earnings on his tax return as well as the dividend. Corporations would still be free to plough back as much as they wish, but they would have no incentive to do so except the proper incentive that they could earn more in ternally than the stockholder could earn externally. Few meas ures would do more to invigorate capital markets, to stimulate enterprise, and to promote effective competition.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
