Occupational Licensure 143 ing,itisworthnoting whywehaveitand whatgeneralpolitical problem is revealed by the tendency for such special legislation to be enacted. The declaration by a large number of different state legislatures that barbers must be approved by a committee ofotherbarbersishardlypersuasiveevidencethatthere isinfact a public interest in having such legislation. Surely the explana tion isdifferent;itisthataproducergrouptends tobemorecon centrated politically than a consumer group. This is an obvious pointoftenmade and yetonewhose importancecannotbeover stressed.7 Each of us is a producer and also a consumer. How ever, we are much more specialized and devote a much larger fraction of our attention to our activity as a producer than as a consumer. We consume literally thousands if not millions of items. The result is that people in the same trade, like barbers or physicians, all have an intense interest in the specific prob lems of this trade and are willing to devote considerable energy to doing something about them. On the other hand, those of us who use barbers at all, get barbered infrequently and spend only a minor fraction of our income in barber shops. Our interest is casual. Hardly any of us are willing to devote much time going to the legislature in order to testify against the in iquity of restricting the practice of barbering. The same point holds for tariffs. The groups that think they have a special in terest in particular tari.ffs are concentrated groups to whom the issue makes a great deal of difference. The public interest is widely dispersed. In consequence, in the absence of any general arrangements to offset the pressureofspecial interests, producer groups will invariably have a much stronger influence on legis lativeaction and thepowersthatbethan will thediverse,widely spread consumer interest. Indeed from this point of view, the puzzle is not why we have so many silly licensure laws, but why we don't have far more. The puzzle is how we ever suc ceeded in getting the relative freedom from government con trols over the productive activities of individuals that we have had and still have in this country, and that other coun~rieshave had as well.
 
 '1See, for example, Wesley Mitchell's famous article on the "Backward Art of Spending Money," reprinted in his book of essays carrying that title (New York: McGraw-Hill, 1937), pp. 3-19.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
