CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM A COMMODITY STANDARD Historically, the device that has evolved most frequently in many different places and over the course of centuries is a com modity standard; i.e., the use as money of some physical commodity such as gold or silver, brass or tin, cigarettes or cognac, or various other goods. If money consisted wholly of a physical commodity ofthis type, there would be, in principle, no need for control by the government at all. The amount of money in society would depend on the cost of producing the monetary commodity rather than other things. Changes in the amount of money would depend on changes in the technical conditions of producing the monetary commodity and on changesinthedemandfor money.Thisis an idealthatanimates many believers in an automatic gold standard.
 
 Actual commodity standards have deviated very far from this simple pattern which requires no governmental intervention.
 
 Historically, a commodity standard- such as a gold standard orasilverstandard- has beenaccompaniedbythedevelopment of fiduciary money of one kind or another, ostensibly converti ble into the monetary commodity on fixed terms. There was a verygood reasonfor this development. The fundamental defect of a commodity standard, from the point of view of the society as a whole, is that itrequires the use of real resources to add to the stock of money. People must work hard to dig gold out of thegroundinSouthAfrica- inorderto rebury itinFortKnox or some similar place. The necessity of using real resources for the operation of a commodity standard establishes a strong in centiveforpeopletofind waystoachievethesameresultwithout employingtheseresources. Ifpeoplewill accept as money pieces of paper on which is printed "I promise to pay —units of the commodity standard,"thesepieces ofpaper can performthe same function as the physical pieces of gold or silver, and they requireverymuchlessinresourcestoproduce.Thispoint,which I have discussed at somewhat greater length elsewhere,l seems to me the fundamental difficulty with a commodity standard.
 
 If an automatic commodity standard were feasible, it would provide an excellent solution to the liberal's dilemma: a stable 1A Program for Monetary Stability (New York: Fordham University Press, 1959) pp. 4-8.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
