Hence, there is every reason why these should be privately owned and operated. If so owned and operated, the enterprise running the highway should receive the gasoline taxes paid on account of travel on it.
 
 Parks are an interesting example because they illustrate the difference between cases that can and cases that cannot be justi fied by neighborhood effects, and because almost everyone at first sight regards the conduct of National Parks as obviously a valid function of government. In fact, however, neighborhood effects may justify a city park; they do not justify a national park, like Yellowstone National Park or the Grand Canyon.
 
 What is the fundamental di.fference between the two? For the city park, it is extremely difficult to identify the people who benefit from it and to charge them for the benefits which they receive. Ifthereis aparkinthemiddleofthe city, thehouses on all sidesget the benefitof the open space, and people who walk through itor byitalso benefit.To maintain toll collectorsat the gates or to impose annual charges per window overlooking the park would be very expensive and difficult. The entrances to a nationalparklikeYellowstone,on theotherhand,arefew; most of the people who come stay for a considerable period of time and it is perfectly feasible to set up toll gates and collect admis sion charges. This is indeed now done, though the charges do not cover the whole costs. If the public wants this kind of an activity enough to pay for it, private enterprises will have every incentive to provide such parks. And, of course, there are many private enterprises ofthis nature nowin existence. I cannot my selfconjureupanyneighborhoodeffectsorimportantmonopoly effects that would justify governmental activity in this area.
 
 Considerations like those I have treated under the heading of neighborhood effects have been used to rationalize almost every conceivable intervention. In many instances, however, this ra tionalization is specialpleadingrather than alegitimateapplica tion of the concept of neighborhood effects. Neighborhood effects cut both ways. They can be a reason for limiting the ac tivitiesofgovernment as well asfor expanding them. Neighbor hood effects impede voluntary exchange because it is difficult 32 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM toidentify the effectson thirdparties and to measure their mag nitude; but this difficulty is present in governmental activity as well.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
