Monopoly exists when a specific individual or enterprise has sufficient control over a particular product or service to deter mine significantly the terms on which other individuals shall have access to it. In some ways, monopoly comes closer to the ordinary concept of competition since it does involve personal rivalry.
 
 Monopoly raises two classes of problems for a free society.
 
 First, the existence of monopoly ""'J.eans a limitation on volun tary exchange throu.gh a reductir 1 in the alternatives available to individuals. Second, the existence of monopoly raises the issue of the "social responsibility," as it has come to be called, of the monopolist. The participant in a competitive market has no appreciable power to alter terms of exchange; he is hardly visible as a separate entity; hence it is hard to argue that he has any "social responsibility" except that which is shared by all citizens to obey the law of the land and to live accordingtohis lights.Themonopolistisvisible and haspower.
 
 It is easy to argue that he should discharge his power not solely tofurther hisown interests buttofurther sociallydesirableends.
 
 Yetthewidespread applicationofsuch adoctrinewould destroy a free society.
 
 Of course, competition is an ideal type, like a Euclidean line or point. No one has ever seen a Euclidean line-which has zerowidth and depth- yetwe all find ituseful toregard many a Euclidean volume-such as a surveyor's string-as a Eu clidean line. Similarly, there is no such thing as "pure" com petition. Every producer has some effect, however tiny, on the price of the product he produces. The important issue for understanding and for policy is whether this effect is significant or can properly be neglected, as the surveyor can neglect the thickness of what he calls a "line." The answer must, of course, dependontheproblem.Butas Ihave studiedeconomicactivities in the United States,I have become increasingly impressed with howwide is the rangeofproblems and industriesfor whichitis appropriate to treat the economy as if it were competitive.
 
 The issues raised by mo.nopoly are technical and cover a field Monopoly andSocial Responsibility 121 in which I have no special competence.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
