The testimonygenerallyhas to come from members of panels set up by medical associations themselves, always, of course, in the alleged interest of the patients.
 
 When these effects are taken into account, I am myself per suaded that licensurehas reduced both the quantity and quality of medical practice; that it has reduced the opportunities avail able to people who would like to be physicians, forcing them to pursue occupations they regard as less attractive; that it has forced the public to pay more for less satisfactory medical serv ice, and that it has retarded technological development both in medicine itself and in the organization of medical practice. I conclude that licensure should be eliminated as a requirement for thepracticeofmedicine.
 
 When all this is said, many a reader, I suspect, like many a person with whom I have discussed these issues, will say, "But still, how else would I get any evidence on the quality of a physician. Granted all that you say about costs, is not licen suretheonlywayofprovidingthepublicwithsomeassuranceof at least minimum quality?" The answer is partly thatpeople do not now choose physicians by picking names at random from a list oflicensed physicians; partly, that a man's ability to pass an examination twenty or thirty years earlier is hardly assurance of quality now; hence, licensure is not now the main or even a major source of assurance of at least minimum quality. But the major answer is very different. It is that the question itself reveals the tyranny of the status quo and the poverty of our imagination in fields in which we are laymen, and even in those in which we have some competence, by comparison with the fertility of the market. Let me illustrate by speculating on how medicine might have developed and what assurances ofquality would have emerged, if the profession had not exerted monop oly power.
 
 Suppose that anyone had been free to practice medicine with out restriction except for legal and financial responsibility for anyharm donetoothersthroughfraud andnegligence.I conjec ture that the whole development of medicine would have been different. The present market for medical care, hampered as it has been, gives some hints of what the difference would have been. Group practice in conjunction ,vith hospitals would Occupational Licensure 159 have grown enormously.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
