CAPITALISM AND FREEDO~1: In the first place, licensure is the key to the control that the medical profession can exercise over the number of physicians.
 
 To understand why tllis is so requires some discussion of the structureofthemedicalprofession.TheAmericanMedicalAsso ciation is perhaps the strongest trade union in the United States.
 
 The essence of the power of a trade union is its power to re strict the number who may engage in a particular occupation.
 
 This restriction may be exercised indirectly by being able to enforce a wage rate higher than would otherwise prevail. If such a wage rate can be enforced, it will reduce the number of people who can get jobs and thus indirectly the number of people pursuing the occupation. This technique of restriction hasdisadvantages.Thereisalways adissatisfied fringe ofpeople whoaretryingtogetintotheoccupation.A tradeunion ismuch betteroff ifitcan limit directly the number ofpeople whoenter the occupation-who ever try to get jobs in it. The disgruntled and dissatisfied are excluded at the outset, and the union does not have to worry about them.
 
 The American Medical Association is in this position. It is a trade union that can limit the number ofpeople who can enter.
 
 How can it do this? The essential control is at the stage of admission to medical school. The Council on Medical Edu cation and Hospitals of the American Medical Association ap proves medical schools. In order for a medical school to get and stay on its list of approved schools it has to meet the stand ards of the Council. The power of the Council has been dem onstrated at various times when there has been pressure to reduce numbers. For example, in the 1930's during the depres sion, the Council on Medical Education and Hospitals wrote aletterto thevarious medical schools sayingthe medical schools were admitting more students than could be given the proper kind of training. In the next year or two, every school reduced the number it was admitting, giving very strong presumptive evidence that the recommendation had some effect.
 
 \Vhy does the Council's approval matter so much? Ifitabuses its power, why don't unapproved medical schools arise? The answer is that in almost every state in the United States, a per son must be licensed to practice medicine, and to get the license, he must be a graduate of an approved school. In almost every OccupationalLicensure state, the list of approved schools is identical with the list of schools approved by the Council on Medical Education and Hospitals of the American Medical Association.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
