This case is in one respect very much like public housing. In both, the people who are helped are visible- the people whose wages areraised; thepeoplewhooccupythepubliclybuiltunits.
 
 The people who are hurt are anonymous and their problem is not clearly connected to its cause: the peoplewho join the ranks oftheunemployedor,morelikely,areneveremployedinpartic ular activities because of the existence of the minimum wage and are driven to even less remunerative activities or to the relief rolls; the people who are pressed ever closer together in the spreading slums that seem to be rather a sign of the need for more public housing than a consequence of the existing public housing.
 
 A large part of the support for minimum wage laws comes not from disinterested men of good will but from interested parties. For example, northern trade unions and northern firms threatened by southern competition favor minimum wage laws to reduce the competition from the South.
 
 3. Farm price supports Farm price supports are another example. Insofar as they can be justified at allan grounds other than the political fact that rural areas are over-represented in the electoral college and Congress, it must be on the belief that farmers on the average have low incomes. Even if this be ac cepted as a fact, farm price supports do not accomplish the in tended purpose of helping the farmers who need help. In the first place, benefits are, if anything, inverse to need, since they are in proportion to the amount sold on the market. The impe cunious farmer not only sells less on the market than the wealthier farmer; in addition, he gets a larger fraction of his income from products grown for his own use, and these do not qualify for the benefits. In the second place, the benefits, if any, to farmers from the price-support program are much smaller than the total amount spent. This is clearly true of the amount spent for storage and similar costs which does not go to the farmer at all-indeed the suppliers of storage capacity and facilities may well be the major beneficiaries. It is equally true of the amount spent to purchase agricultural products. The CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM farmer is thereby induced to spend additional sums on ferti lizer, seed, machinery, etc.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
