Said Producer King, "There are more ghosts in Hollywood than in Forest Lawn. Every company in town has used the work of black listed people. We're just the first to confirm what everybody knows." One may believe, as I do, that communism would destroy all of our freedoms, one may be opposed to it as firmly and as strongly as possible, and yet, at the same time, also believe that in afree society it is intolerable for a man to be prevented from making voluntary arrangements with others that are mutu ally attractive becausehebelievesinoristryingto promotecom munism. His freedom includeshisfreedom to promotecommu nism. Freedom also, of course, includes the freedom of others not to deal with him under those circumstances. The Hollywoodblacklistwas an unfree actthatdestroysfreedom be causeitwas acollusive arrangement that used coercive means to prevent voluntary exchanges. It didn't work precisely because the market made it costly for people to preserve the blacklist.
 
 Thecommercialemphasis,thefact thatpeoplewhoare running enterprises have an incentive to make as much money as they can, protected the freedom of the individuals who were black listed by providing them with an alternative form of employ ment, and by giving people an incentive to employ them.
 
 If Hollywood and the movie industry had been government enterprises or if in England it had been a question of employ ment by the British Broadcasting Corporation it is difficult to believe that the "Hollywood Ten" or their equivalent would have found employment. Equally, it is difficult to believe that under those circumstances, strong proponents of individualism and private enterprise- or indeed strong proponents of any view other than the status quo- would be able to get em ployment.
 
 Anotherexampleoftheroleofthemarketinpreserving politi calfreedom, was revealed in our experience with McCarthyism.
 
 Entirely aside from the substantive issues involved, and the meritsofthechargesmade, whatprotectiondid individuals,and in particular government employees, have against irresponsible accusations and probings into matters that it went against their conscience to reveal? Their appeal to the Fifth Amendment EconomicFreedom andPoliticalFreedom 21 would have been a hollow mockery without an alternative to government employment.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
