A more limitedexample is the provision in Britain whereby local authorities pay the fees of some students attending non-state schools. Another is the ar rangement in France whereby the state pays part of the costs for students attending non-state schools.
 
 One argument for nationalizing schools resting on a "neigh borhood effect" is that it might otherwise be impossible to provide the common core of values deemed requisite for social stability. The imposition of minimum standards on privately conducted schools, as suggested above, might not be enough to achieve this result. The issue can be illustrated concretely in terms of schools run by different religious groups. Such schools, it can be argued, will instil sets of values that are inconsistent with one another and with those instilled in non sectarian schools; in this way, they convert education into a divisive rather than aunifyingforce.
 
 Carried to its extreme, this argument would call not only for governmentally administered schools, but also for compul sory attendance at such schools. Existing arrangements in the United States and most other Western countries are a halfway house. Governmentally administered schools are available but not compulsory. However, the link between the financing of schooling and its administration places other schools at a dis advantage: they get the benefit of little or none of the govern mental funds spent on schooling- a situation that has been the source of much political dispute, particularly in France and at present in the United States. The elimination of this disadvantage might, it is feared, greatly strengthen the paro chial schools and so render the problem of achieving a com mon core ofvalues even more difficult.
 
 Persuasive as this argument is, it is by no means clear that it is valid or that denationalizing schooling would have the effects suggested. On grounds of principle, it conflicts with the preservation of freedon1 itself. Drawing a line between pro viding for the common social values required for a stable society, on the one hand, and indoctrination inhibiting free dom of thought and belief, on the other is another of those vague boundaries that is easier to mention than to define.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
