These arguments are thoroughly misleading. The fact is that the Great Depression, like most other periods of severe unem ployment,wasproduced bygovernmentmismanagementrather than by any inherent instability of the private economy. A gov ernmentallyestablishedagency- theFederalReserve System hadbeenassignedresponsibilityformonetarypolicy.In1930and 1931,itexercised this responsibility soineptly as to convert what otherwisewould have been a moderate contractioninto amajor catastrophe (see further discussion, pages 45-50, below). Simi larly today, governmental measures constitute the major imped iments to economic growth in the United States. Tariffs and other restrictions on international trade, high taxburdens and a complex and inequitable tax structure, regulatory commissions, governmentpriceand wagefixing, and ahostofothermeasures give individuals an incentive to misuse and misdirect resources, and distort the investment of new savings. What we urgently need, for both economic stability and growth, is a reduction of government intervention not an increase.
 
 Such a reduction would still leave an important role for gov ernment in these areas. It is desirable that we use government to provide a stable monetary framework for a free economy thisis partofthefunction ofprovidingastablelegalframework.
 
 It is desirable too that we use government to provide a general legal and economic framework that will enable individuals to produce growth in the economy, if that is in accord with their values.
 
 The major areas of governmental policy that are relevant to economic stability are monetary policy and fiscal or budgetary policy. This chapter discusses domestic monetary policy, the next, international monetary arrangements,and chapter v, fiscal or budgetary policy.
 
 Our task in this and the following chapter is to steer a course between two views, neither of which is acceptable though both have their attractions. The Scyllais thebeliefthat apurely auto matic gold standard is both feasible and desirable and would resolve all the problems of fostering economic co-operation The Control ofMoney 39 among individuals and nations in a stable environment.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
