That is why the licensure provision is the key to the effective control of ad mission. It has a dual effect. On the one hand, the members of the licensure commission are always physicians and hence have some control at the step at which men apply for a license. This control is more limited in effectivenessthan control atthe medi cal school level. In almost all professions requiring licensure, people may try to get admitted more than once. Ifaperson tries long enough and in enough jurisdictions he is likely to get through sooner or later. Since he has already spent the money and time to get his training, he has a strong incentive to keep trying. Licensure provisions that come into operation only after a man is trained therefore affect entry largely by raising the costs of getting into the occupation, since it may take a longer time to get in and since there is always some uncertainty whether he will succeed. But this rise in cost is nothing like so effective in limiting entry as is preventing a man from getting started on his career. If he is eliminated at the stage of entering medical school, he never comes up as a candidate for exami i1ation; he can never be troublesome at that stage. The efficient way to get control over the number in a profession is therefore to get control of entry into professional schools.
 
 Control over admission to medical school and later licensure enables the profession to limit entry in two ways. The obvious one is simply by turning down many applicants. The less obvi ous, but probably far more important one, is by establishing standards for admission and licensure that make entry so diffi cult as to discourage young people from ever trying to get ad mission. Though most state laws require only two years of college prior to medical school, nearly 100 per cent of the en trants have had four years of college. Similarly, medical train ing proper has been lengthened, particularly through more stringent internship arrangements.
 
 As an aside, the lawyers have never been as successful as the physicians in getting control at the point of admission to pro fessional school, though they are moving in that direction. The reason is amusing. Almost every school on the American Bar CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM Association's list of approved schools is a full time day school; almost no night schools are approved.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
