The second is the pater nalistic concern for children and other irresponsible individ uals. Neighborhood effects and paternalism have very different implications for (I) general education for citizenship, and (2) specialized vocational education. The grounds for governmen tal intervention are widely different in these two areas and justifyvery different types of action.
 
 One further preliminary remark: it is important to distin guish between "schooling" and "education." Not all schooling is education nor all education, schooling. The proper subject of concern is education. The activities of government are mostly limited to schooling.
 
 GENERAL EDUCATION FOR CITIZENSHIP A stable and democratic society is impossible without a min imum degree of literacy and knowledge on the part of most citizens and without widespread acceptance of some common set of values. Education can contribute to both. In consequence, the gain from the education of a child accrues not only to the child or to his parents but also to other members of the society.
 
 The education of my child contributes to your welfare by pro moting a stable and democratic society. It is not feasible to identify the particular individuals (or families) benefited and so to charge for the services rendered. There is therefore a significant "neighborhood effect." What kind ofgovernmental action is justifiedby this particu lar neighborhood effect? The most obvious is to require that each child receive a minimum amount of schooling of a speci fied kind. Such a requirement could be imposed upon the parents without further government action, just as owners of buildings, and frequently of automobiles, are required to ad here to specified standards to protect the safety ofothers. There is, however, a difference between the two cases. Individuals who cannot pay the costs of meeting the standards required for buildings or automobiles can generally divest themselves The Roleof Governmentin Education 87 of tIle property by selling it.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
