Fortunately, the areas in which technical considerations make monopoly a likely or a probable outcome are fairly limited.
 
 They would offer no serious threat to the preservation of a free economy if it were not for the tendency of regulation, intro duced on this ground, to spread to situations in which it is not so justified.
 
 2. Direct and Indirect Government Assistance Probably the mostimportantsourceofmonopolypowerhasbeengovernment assistance,directandindirect.Numerousexamplesofreasonably direct government assistance have been cited above. The indi rect assistance to monopoly consists of measures taken for other purposes which have as a largely unintended effect the imposi tion of limitations on potential competitors of existing firms.
 
 Perhaps the three clearest examples are tariffs, tax legislation, and law enforcement and legislation with respect to labor disputes.
 
 Tariffs have of course been imposed largely to "protect" do mestic industries, which means to impose handicaps on poten tial competitors. They always interfere with the freedom of individuals to engage in voluntary exchange. After all, the lib eral takes the individual,not the nation orcitizenofaparticular nation, as his unit. Herlce he regards it just as much a violation of freedom if citizens of the United States and Switzerland are prevented from consummating an exchange that would be mutually advantageous as if two citizens of the United States are prevented from doing so. Tariffs need not produce monop oly. If the market for the protected industry is sufficiently large and technical conditions permit many firms, there can be effec tive competition domestically in the protected industry, as in the United States in textiles. Clearly, however, tariffs do foster monopoly. It is far easier for a few firms than for many to collude to fix prices, and it is generally easier for enterprises in the same country to collude than for enterprises in different countries. Britain was protected by free trade from widespread monopoly during the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, despite the relatively small size of her domestic market and the CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM large scale of many firms.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
