By relying pri marilyon voluntary co-operation and private enterprise,in both economicand otheractivities,wecaninsurethat theprivatesec tor is a check on the powers of the governmental sector and an effective protection of freedom of speech, of religion, and of thought.
 
 The second broad principle is that government power must be dispersed. If,government is to exercise power, better in the countythan in the state, better in the state than in Washington.
 
 If I do not like what my local community does, be it in sewage disposal,orzoning,orschools, I can move to another local com munity, and though few may takethis step,the merepossibility acts as a check. If I do not like what my state does, I can move toanother.IfIdonotlikewhatWashingtonimposes,Ihavefew alternatives in this world of jealous nations.
 
 The very difficulty of avoiding the enactments of the federal government is of course the great attraction of centralization to many of its proponents. It will enable them more effectively, they believe, to legislate programs that- as they see it- are in the interest of the public, whether it be the transfer of income from the rich to the poor or from private to governmental pur poses.They are inasenseright. Butthis coin has two sides. The power to do good is also the power to do harm; those who con trol the power today may not tomorrow; and, more important, what one man regards as good, another may regard as harm.
 
 The great tragedy of the drive to centralization, as of the drive toextendthe scopeofgovernmentin general, is that it is mostly led by men of good will who will be the first to rue its consequences.
 
 Thepreservationoffreedom is theprotective reason for limit ing and decentralizing governmental power. But there is also a constructive reason. The great advances of civilization, whether inarchitectureorpainting,inscienceorliterature,inindustryor agriculture,have never comefrom centralized government. Co lumbus did notsetout to seek anew route to China in response to a majority directive of a parliament, though he was partly financed by an absolute monarch. Newton and Leibnitz; Ein stein and Bohr; Shakespeare, Milton, and Pasternak; Whitney, McCormick, Edison, and Ford; Jane Addams, Florence Night- 4 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM ingale,andAlbertSchweitzer;nooneoftheseopenednewfron tiers in human knowledge and understanding, in literature, in technical possibilities, or in the relief of human misery in re sponse togovernmental directives.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
