This is the part that raises the really difficult ethicalissue.
 
 It is widely argued that it is essential to distinguish between inequality in personal endowments and in property, and be tween inequalities arising from inherited wealth and from ac quired wealth. Inequality resultingfrom differences in personal capacities, orfrom differences in wealth accumulated by the in dividual in question, are considered appropriate, or at least not so clearly inappropriate as differences resulting from inherited wealth.
 
 This distinction is untenable. Is there any greater ethical jus tification for the high returns to the individual who inherits from his parents a peculiar voice for which there is a great demand thanfor thehighreturns to theindividual whoinherits property? The sons of Russian commissars surely have ahigher expectation of income- perhaps also of liquidation- than the sons of peasants. Is this any more or less justifiable than the higher income expectation of the son of an American mil lionaire? We can look at this same question in another way. A parentwho has wealth thathewishes topasson tohis child can do so in different ways. He can use a given sum of money to finance his child's training as, say, a certified publicaccountant, or to set him up in business, or to set up a trust fund yielding him aproperty income. In anyofthese cases,thechild will have a higher income than he otherwise would. But in the first case, his income will be regarded as coming from human capacities; in the second, from profits; in the third, from inherited wealth.
 
 Is there any basis for distinguishing among these categories of receipts on ethical grounds? Finally, it seems illogical to say that a·.man is entitled to what he has produced by personal ca pacities or to the produce of the wealth he has accumulated, but that he is not entitled to pass any wealth on to his children; to say that aluan may use his incomefor riotous living but may not give it to his heirs. Surely, the latter is one way to use what hehasproduced.
 
 The fact that these arguments against the so-called capitalist zthic are invalid does not ofcourse demonstrate that the capital ist ethic is an acceptable one. I find it difficult to justify either accepting or rejecting it, or to justify any alternative principle.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
