As aresult, some oftheir livestock were soldbyauctioninordertosatisfyclaimsfor socialsecuritylevies.
 
 True, the number of citizens who regard compulsory old age insurance as a deprivation of freedom may be few, but the be liever in freedom has never counted noses.
 
 A citizen of the United States who under the laws of various states is not free to follow the occupation of his own choosing unless he can get a license for it, is likewise being deprived of an essential part of his freedom. So is the man who would like to exchange some ofhis goods with, say, aSwissfor awatch but is preventedfrom doing soby aquota. So alsois the Californian whowasthrownintojailfor sellingAlkaSeltzeratapricebelow that set by the manufacturer uncler so-called "fair trade" laws.
 
 Soalso is the farmer who cannot grow the amount of wheat he wants. And soon. Clearly,economicfreedom, in and of itself, is an extremely important part of total freedom.
 
 Viewed as a means to the end of political freedom, economic arrangements are important because of their effect on the con centration or dispersion of power. The kind of economic or ganization that provides economic freedom directly, namely, competitive capitalism, also promotes political freedom because it separates economic power from political power and in this way enables the one to offset the other.
 
 Historical evidence speaks with a single voice on the relation between political freedom and a free market. I know of no example in time or place of a society that has been marked by a large measure of political freedom, and that has not also used something comparable to a free market to organize the bulk of economic activity.
 
 Becauseweliveinalargelyfree society,wetend toforget how limited is the span of time and the part of the globe for which there has ever been anything like political freedom: the typical state of mankind is tyranny, servitude, and misery. The nine teenthcenturyandearlytwentiethcenturyintheWesternworld stand out as strikingexceptions to thegeneral trend ofhistorical development. Political freedom in this instance clearly came along with the free market and the development of capitalist 10 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM institutions.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
