The Charybdis is the belief that the need to adapt to unforeseen cir cumstances requires the assignment of wide discretionary powers to a group of technicians, gathered together in an "in dependent" centralbank,or in somebureaucratic body. Neither has proved a satisfactory solution in the past; and neither is likely to in the future.
 
 A liberal isfundamentally fearful ofconcentrated power. His objectiveistopreservethemaximumdegreeoffreedomforeach individualseparatelythatiscompatible with oneman'sfreedom not interfering with other men's freedom. He believes that this objective requires that power be dispersed. He is suspicious of assigning to government any functions that can be performed through the market, both because this substitutes coercion for voluntary co-operation in the area in question and because, by giving government an increased role, it threatens freedom in other areas.
 
 Theneedforthedispersalofpowerraisesanespeciallydifficult problem in the field of money. There is widespread agreement that government must have some responsibility for monetary matters. There is also widespread recognition that control over moneycanbeapotenttoolforcontrollingandshapingtheecon omy. Its potency is dramatized in Lenin's famous dictum that themosteffectivewaytodestroyasocietyistodestroyitsmoney.
 
 It is exemplified in more pedestrian fashion by the extent to which control of money has, from time immemorial, enabled sovereigns to exact heavy taxes from the populace at large, very often without the explicit agreement of the legislature when there has been one. This has been true from early times when monarchs clipped coins and adopted similar expedients to the present with our more sophisticated modern techniques for turning the printing press or simply altering book entries. The problem is to establish institutional arrangements that will en able government to exercise responsibility for money, yet at the same time limit the power thereby given to government and prevent this power from being used in ways that will tend to weaken rather than strengthen afree society.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
