It is hard to know when neighborhood effects are suffi ciently large to justify particular costs in overcoming them and even harder to distribute the costs in an appropriate fashion.
 
 Consequently, when government engages in activities to over come neighborhood effects, it will in part introduce an ad ditional set of neighborhood effects by failing to charge or to compensate individuals properly. Whether the original or the new neighborhood effects are the more serious can only be judged by the facts of the individual case, and even then, only very approximately. Furthermore, the use of government to overcome neighborhood effects itself has an extremely impor tant neighborhood effect which is unrelated to the particular occasion for government action. Every act of government inter vention limits the area of individual freedom directly and threatens thepreservationoffreedom indirectlyfor reasonselab orated in the first chapter.
 
 Our principles offer no hard and fast line howfar it is appro priate to use government to accomplish jointly what it is diffi cultorimpossibleforustoaccomplishseparatelythroughstrictly voluntaryexchange. In any particularcaseofproposed interven tion, we must make up a balance sheet, listing separately the advantages and disadvantages. Our principles tell us what items toputontheonesideand whatitems ontheotherand theygive us some basis for attaching importance to the different items.
 
 In particular, we shall always want to enter on the liability side of any proposed government intervention, its neighborhood ef fect in threatening freedom, and give this effect considerable weight. Just how much weight to give to it, as to other items, depends upon the circumstances. If, for example, existing gov ernment intervention is minor, we shall attach a smaller weight to the negative effects of additional government intervention.
 
 This is an important reason why many earlier liberals, like Henry Simons, writing at a time when government was small by today's standards, were willing to have government under take activities that today's liberals would not accept now that governmenthas become so overgrown.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
