Governmentin aFreeSociety 35 theUnitedStates,andtheircounterpartsinotherWestern coun tries. Succeeding chapters will deal in some detail with some of these activities, and afew have been discussed above, but it may help to give a sense of proportion about the role that a liberal would assign governmentsimplyto list, in closing this chapter, someactivities currentlyundertaken bygovernmentin the U.S., that cannot, so far as I can see, validly be justified in terms of the principlesoutlined above: I. Parityprice support programs for agriculture.
 
 2.Tariffson importsorrestrictionson exports,such ascurrent oilimportquotas,sugarquotas,etc.
 
 3. Governmental control of output, such as through the farm program, or through prorationing ofoil as is done by the Texas RailroadCommission.
 
 4.Rentcontrol,suchasisstillpracticedinNewYork,ormore general price and wage controls such as were imposed during and justafterWorldWarII.
 
 5. Legalminimum wagerates, orlegal maximum prices,such as the legal maximum ofzero on the rate ofinterest that can be paid on demand deposits by commercial banks, or the legally fixed maximum rates that can be paid on savings and time dtposits.
 
 6. Detailed regulation of industries, such as the regulation of transportation by the Interstate Commerce Commission. This had some justification on technical monopoly grounds when initiallyintroducedforrailroads;ithasnone nowfor anymeans oftransport. Another example is detailed regulation ofbanking.
 
 7. Asimilar example, but one which deserves special mention because ofits implicit censorship and violation offree speech, is the control of radio and television by the Federal Communica tions Commission.
 
 8. Present social security programs, especially the old-age and retirement programs compelling people in effect (a) to spend a specified fraction oftheir income on the purchase of retirement an?uity, (b) to buy the annuity from a publicly operated enter prIse.
 
 9. Licensure provisions in various cities and states which restrict particular enterprises or occupations or professions to people who have a license, where t.he license is more than a CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM receipt for a tax which anyone who wishes to enter the activity may pay.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
