The Distribution ofIncome 167 Though the essentialfunction ofpayment in accordancewith product in a market society is to enable resources to be allocated efficiently without compulsion, it is unlikely to be tolerated un less it is also regarded as yielding distributive justice. No society can be stable unless there is a basic core ofvalue judgments that are unthinkingly accepted by the great bulk of its members.
 
 Some key institutions must be accepted as "absolutes," not sim ply as instrumental. I believe that payment in accordance with product has been, and, in large measure, still is, one of these acceptedvaluejudgmentsorinstitutions.
 
 One can demonstrate this by examining the grounds on which the internal opponents of the capitalist system have at tacked the distribution of income resulting from it. It is a dis tinguishing feature of the core of central values of a society that it is accepted alike by its members, whether they regard them selves as proponents or as opponents of the system of organiza tion ofthe society. Even the severest internalcriticsofcapitalism have implicitly accepted payment in accordance with product as ethicallyfair.
 
 The most far-reaching criticism has come from the Marxists.
 
 Marx argued that labor was exploited. Why? Because laborpro duced the whole of the product but got only part of it; the rest is Marx's "surplus value." Even if the statementsoffact implicit in this assertion were accepted, the value judgmentfollows only if one accepts the capitalist ethic. Labor is "exploited" only if labor is entitled to what it produces. If one accepts instead the socialist premise, "to each according to his need, from each accordingtohisability"- whateverthatmaymean- itisneces sary to compare what labor produces, not with what it gets but with its "ability", and to compare what labor gets, not with whatitproducesbutwithits "need." Of course, the Marxist argument is invalid on other grounds aswell.Thereis,first, the confusionbetweenthetotalproductof all co-operating resources and the amount added to product - in the economist's jargon, marginal product. Even more striking, there is an unstated change in the meaning of "labor" in passingfrom the premise to the conclusion. Marx recognized the role of capital in producing the product but regarded capi tal as embodied labor. Hence,written outinfull, the premisesof 168 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM the Marxist syllogism would run: "Present and past labor pro duce the whole of the product.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
