If a potential blues singer can find employment and a potential opera singer cannot, this simply means that the blues singer is rendering services which the community regards as worth paying for whereas the po tential opera singer is not. The potential opera singer is "harmed" by the community's taste. He would be better off and the blues singer "harmed" if the tastes were the reverse. Clearly, this kind of harm does not involve any involuntary exchange or an imposition of costs or granting of benefits to third parties.
 
 There is a strong case for using government to prevent one per son from imposing positive harm, which is to say, to prevent coercion. There is no case whatsoever for using government to avoid the negative kind of "harm." On the contrary, such gov..
 
 ernment intervention reduces freedom and limits voluntary co-operation.
 
 FEPC legislation involves the acceptance of a principle that proponents would find abhorrent in almost every other appli cation. If it is appropriate for the state to say that individuals may not discriminate in employment because of color or race or religion, then it is equally appropriate for the state,provided a majority can be found to vote that way, to say that individ uals must discriminate in employment on the basis of color, race or religion. The Hitler Nuremberg laws and the laws in the Southern states imposing special disabilities upon Negroes are both examples of laws similar in principle to FEPC. Op ponents of such laws who are in favor of FEPC cannot argue that there is anything wrong with them in principle, that they involve a kind of state action that ought not to be permitted.
 
 They can only argue that the particular criteria used are irrele vant. They can only seek to persuade other men that they should use other criteria instead of these.
 
 If one takes a broad sweep of history and looks at tIle kind of things that the majority will be persuaded of if each indi vidual case is to be decided on its merits rather tIlan as part of a general principle, there can be little doubt that the effect of a widespread acceptance of the appropriateness of govern ment action in this area would be extremely undesirable, even from the point of view of those who at the moment favor FEPC. If, at the moment, the proponents of FEPC are in a CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM position to make their views effective, it is only because of a constitutional and federal situation in which a regional ma jority in one part of the country may be in aposition to impose its views on a majority in another part of the country.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
