Hence, in a free market they will tend to drive him out.
 
 This same phenomenon is of much wider scope. It is often taken for granted that the person who discriminates against others because of their race, religion, color, or whatever, in curs no costs by doing so but simply imposes costs on others.
 
 This view is on a par with the very similar fallacy that a country does not hurt itself by imposing tariffs on the products of other countries.! Both are equally wrong. The man who objects to buying from or working alongside a Negro, for ex ample, thereby limits his range of choice. He will generally have to pay a higher price for what he buys or receive a lower return for his work. Or, put the other way, those of us who regard color of skin or religion as irrelevant can buy some thingsmore cheaplyas aresult.
 
 As these comments perhaps suggest, there are real problems in defining and interpreting discrimination. The man who exercises discrimination pays a price for doing so. He is, as it were, "buying" what he regards as a "product." It is hard to see that discrimination can have any meaning other than a "taste" of others that one does not share. We do not regard it as "discrimination"- or at least not in the same invidious sense- if an individual is willing to pay ahigher price to listen to one singer than to another, although wedo ifhe is willing to payahigherpricetohaveservicesrenderedtohimbyapersonof one color than by a person of another. The difference between the two cases is that in the one case we share the taste, and in the other case we do not. Is there any difference in principle between the taste that leads a householder to prefer an attrac tive servant to an ugly one and the taste that leads another to prefer a Negro to a white or a white to a Negro, except that we sympathize and agree with the one taste and may not with the other? I do not mean to say that all tastes areequally good.
 
 1In a brilliant and penetrating analysis of some economic issues involved in dis crimination, Gary Becker demonstrates that the problem of discrimination is al most identical in its logical structure with that of foreign trade and tariffs. See G. S. Becker, The Economics of Discrimination (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1957).
 

 
(Simplified)
 
