18 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM

The market helps break a bad cycle by letting many people each give a small amount of money to support new ideas, without needing to convince them all first. This kind of thing can’t happen in a socialist society because only the government has all the power.

Let’s imagine a socialist government that knows about this problem and wants to keep freedom. Could it give money to support new ideas? Maybe, but it’s hard to see how. It could create an office to pay for ideas that go against the government. But how would it decide who to help? If it helped everyone who asked, it would run out of money quickly. This is because, in any economy, if you pay enough for something, you get a lot of it. So if speaking up for radical ideas paid well, many people would do it.

Also, being free to support unpopular ideas doesn’t mean it should be free or easy. Actually, no society would stay stable if speaking out for big changes cost nothing or was paid for by others. It’s right that people have to make sacrifices to speak up for what they really believe.

It’s even more important to keep freedom only for people who are willing to make sacrifices, or else freedom becomes chaos and irresponsibility. What matters is that the cost of supporting unpopular ideas should be okay to handle, not impossible.

But there’s more. In a free market, just having money is enough. Paper sellers will sell to anyone, whether it’s a radical newspaper or a business one. But in a socialist system, having money isn’t enough. Someone who supports capitalism would have to convince a government factory to give him paper, a government printing press to print his flyers, a government post office to send them out, a government office to let him speak, and more.

Maybe there’s a way to fix these problems and keep freedom in a socialist society. It’s not totally impossible. But it’s clear that it would be very hard to create systems that really protect the chance to disagree and speak out.  

Economic Freedom and Political Freedom 19
