Occupational Licensure 153 Control of entry is explicitly rationalized along these lines only at times like the Great Depression when there is much unemployment and relatively low incomes. In ordinary times, the rationalization for restriction is different. It is that themem bers of the medical profession want to raise wllat they regard as the standards of "quality" of the profession. The defect in this rationalization is acommon one, and one that is destructive of a proper understanding of the operation of an economic sys tem, namely, the failure to distinguish between technical effi ciency and economic efficiency.
 
 A story about lawyers will perhaps illustrate the point. At a meeting of lawyers at which problems of admission were being discussed, a colleague of mine, arguing against restrictive ad mission standards, used an analogy from the automobile industry. Would it not, he said, be absurd if the automobile in dustry were to argue that no one should drive alow quality car and therefore that no automobile manufacturer should be permitted to produce a car that did not come up to the Cadillac standard. One member of the audience rose and approved the analogy, saying that, of course, the country cannot afford any thing but Cadillac lawyers! This tends to be the professional attitude. The members look solely at technical standards of performance, and argue in effect that we must have only first rate physicians even if this means that some people get no medical service-though of course they never put it that way.
 
 Nonetheless, the view that people should get only the "opti mum" medical service always lead to a restrictive policy, a pol icy that keeps down the number of physicians. I would not, of course, want to argue that this is the only force at work, but only that this kind of consideration leads many well-meaning physicians to go along with policies that they would reject out of-hand if they did not have this kind of comforting rationalization.
 
 It is easy to demonstrate that quality is only a rationalization and not the underlying reason for restriction. The power of the Council on Medical Education and Hospitals of the American Medical Association has been used to limit numbers in ways that cannot possiblyhave any connection whatsoever with qual ity. The simplest example is their recommendation to various 154 CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM states that citizenship be made a requirement for the practice ofmedicine.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
