Then he stormed out of the house.
 
 * * * When the money ran out, hunger began to cast a pall over their lives. It was stunning to Mariam how quickly alleviating hunger became the crux of their existence.
 
 Rice, boiled plain and white, with no meat or sauce, was a rare treat now. They skipped meals with increasing and alarming regularity. Sometimes Rasheed brought home sardines in a can and brittle, dried bread that tasted like sawdust. Sometimes a stolen bag of apples, at the risk of getting his hand sawed off. In grocery stores, he carefully pocketed canned ravioli, which they split five ways, Zalmai getting the lion's share. They ate raw turnips sprinkled with salt. Limp leaves of lettuce and blackened bananas for dinner.
 
 Death from starvation suddenly became a distinct possibility. Some chose not to wait for it.
 
 Mariam heard of a neighborhood widow who had ground some dried bread, laced it with rat poison, and fed it to all seven of her children. She had saved the biggest portion for herself.
 
 Aziza's ribs began to push through the skin, and the fat from her cheeks vanished. Her calves thinned, and her complexion turned the color of weak tea. When Mariam picked her up, she could feel her hip bone poking through the taut skin. Zalmai lay around the house, eyes dulled and half closed, or in his father's lap limp as a rag. He cried himself to sleep, when he could muster the energy, but his sleep was fitful and sporadic. White dots leaped before Mariam's eyes whenever she got up. Her head spun, and her ears rang all the time.
 
 She remembered something Mullah Faizullah used to say about hunger when Ramadan started: Even the snakebiiien man finds sleep, but not the hungry.
 
 "My children are going to die," Laila said. "Right before my eyes." "They are not," Mariam said. "I won't let them. It's going to be all right, Laila jo. I know what to do." * * * One blistering hot day, Mariam put on her burqa, and she and Rasheed walked to the Intercontinental Hotel. Bus fare was an un affordable luxury now, and Mariam was exhausted by the time they reached the top of the steep hill. Climbing the slope, she was struck by bouts of dizziness, and twice she had to stop, wait for it to pass.
 
 At the hotel entrance, Rasheed greeted and hugged one of the doormen, who was dressed in a burgundy suit and visor cap. There was some friendly looking talk between them.
 
 Rasheed spoke with his hand on the doorman's elbow. He motioned toward Mariam at one point, and they both looked her way briefly. Mariam thought there was something vaguely familiar about the doorman.
 
 When the doorman went inside, Mariam and Rasheed waited. From this vantage point, 182 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS Mariam had a view of the Polytechnic Institute, and, beyond that, the old Khair khana district and the road to Mazar.
 
