She laid down her prayer rug and did namaz. When she was done, she cupped her hands before her face and asked God not to let all this good fortune slip away from her.
 
 * * * It was Rasheed'S idea to go to the hamam. Mariam had never been to a bathhouse, but he said there was nothing finer than stepping out and taking that first breath of cold air, to feel the heat rising from the skin.
 
 In the women's hamam, shapes moved about in the steam around Mariam, a glimpse of a hip here, the contour of a shoulder there. The squeals of young girls, the grunts of old women, and the trickling of bathwater echoed between the walls as backs were scrubbed and hair soaped. Mariam sat in the far corner by herself, working on her heels with a pumice stone, insulated by a wall of steam from the passing shapes.
 
 Then there was blood and she was screaming.
 
 The sound of feet now, slapping against the wet cobblestones. Faces peering at her through the steam. Tongues clucking.
 
 Later that night, in bed, Fariba told her husband that when she'd heard the cry and rushed over she'd found Rasheed's wife shriveled into a corner, hugging her knees, a pool of blood at her feet.
 
 "You could hear the poor girl's teeth rattling, Hakim, she was shivering so hard." When Mariam had seen her, Fariba said, she had asked in a high, supplicating voice, It's normal, isn't it? Isn't it? Isn’t it normal?
 
 * * * Another bus ride with Rasheed. Snowing again. Falling thick this time. It was piling in heaps on sidewalks, on roofs, gathering in patches on the bark of straggly trees. Mariam watched the merchants plowing snow from their storefronts A group of boys was chasing a black dog. They waved sportively at the bus. Mariam looked over to Rasheed. His eyes were closed He wasn't humming. Mariam reclined her head and closed her eyes too. She wanted out of her cold socks, out of the damp wool sweater that was prickly against her skin. She wanted away from this bus.
 
 At the house, Rasheed covered her with a quilt when she lay on the couch, but there was a stiff, perfunctory air about this gesture.
 
 "What kind of answer is that?" he said again. "That's what a mullah is supposed to say.
 
 You pay a doctor his fee, you want a better answer than 'God's will.'" Mariam curled up her knees beneath the quilt and said he ought to get some rest.
 
 "God's will," he simmered.
 
 He sat in his room smoking cigarettes all day.
 
 58 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS Mariam lay on the couch, hands tucked between her knees, watched the whirlpool of snow twisting and spinning outside the window.
 
