Over the years, Mariam would have ample occasion to think about how things might have turned out if she had let the driver take her back to the kolba But she didn't. She spent the night outside Jalil's house. She watched the sky darken, the shadows engulf the neighboring housefronts. The tattooed girl brought her some bread and a plate of rice, which Mariam said she didn't want. The girl left it near Mariam. From time to time, Mariam heard footsteps down the street, doors swinging open, muffled greetings. Electric lights came on, and windows glowed dimly. Dogs barked. When she could no longer resist the hunger, Mariam ate the plate of rice and the bread. Then she listened to the crickets chirping from gardens. Overhead, clouds slid past a pale moon.
 
 In the morning, she was shaken awake. Mariam saw that during the night someone had covered her with a blanket.
 
 It was the driver shaking her shoulder.
 
 "This is enough. You've made a scene. Bas. It's time to go." Mariam sat up and rubbed her eyes. Her back and neck were sore. "I'm going to wait for him." "Look at me," he said. "Jalil Khan says that I need to take you back now. Right now. Do you understand? Jalil Khan says so." He opened the rear passenger door to the car."Bia Come on," he said softly.
 
 "I want to see him," Mariam said. Her eyes were tearing over.
 
 The driver sighed. "Let me take you home. Come on, dokhtarjo. " Mariam stood up and walked toward him. But then, at the last moment, she changed direction and ran to the front gates. She felt the driver's fingers fumbling for a grip at her shoulder. She shed him and burst through the open gates.
 
 In the handful of seconds that she was in Jalil's garden, Mariam's eyes registered seeing a gleaming glass structure with plants inside it, grape vines clinging to wooden trellises, a fishpond built with gray blocks of stone, fruit trees, and bushes of brightly colored flowers everywhere. Her gaze skimmed over all of these things before they found a face, across the garden, in an upstairs window. The face was there for only an instant, a flash, but long enough. Long enough for Mariam to see the eyes widen, the mouth open. Then it snapped away from view. A hand appeared and frantically pulled at a cord. The curtains fell shut.
 
 Then a pair of hands buried into her armpits and she was lifted off the ground. Mariam kicked. The pebbles spilled from her pocket. Mariam kept kicking and crying as she was carried to the car and lowered onto the cold leather of the backseat.
 
 24 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS * * * The driver talked in a muted, consoling tone as he drove.
 
