Mariam did not hear him. All during the ride, as she bounced in the backseat, she cried. They were tears of grief, of anger, of disillusionment. But mainly tears of a deep, deep shame at how foolishly she had given herself over to Jalil, how she had fretted over what dress to wear, over the mismatching hijab, walking all the way here, refusing to leave, sleeping on the street like a stray dog.
 
 And she was ashamed of how she had dismissed her mother's stricken looks, her puffy eyes.
 
 Nana, who had warned her, who had been right all along.
 
 Mariam kept thinking of his face in the upstairs window. He let her sleep on the street. On the street Mariam cried lying down. She didn't sit up, didn't want to be seen. She imagined all of Herat knew this morning how she'd disgraced herself. She wished Mullah Faizullah were here so she could put her head on his lap and let him comfort her.
 
 After a while, the road became bumpier and the nose of the car pointed up. They were on the uphill road between Herat and Gul Daman.
 
 What would she say to Nana, Mariam wondered. How would she apologize? How could she even face Nana now?
 
 The car stopped and the driver helped her out. "I'll walk you," he said.
 
 She let him guide her across the road and up the track. There was honeysuckle growing along the path, and milkweed too. Bees were buzzing over twinkling wildflowers. The driver took her hand and helped her cross the stream. Then he let go, and he was talking about how Herat's famous one hundred and twenty days' winds would start blowing soon, from midmorning to dusk, and how the sand flies would go on a feeding frenzy, and then suddenly he was standing in front of her, trying to cover her eyes, pushing her back the way they had come and saying, "Go back! No. Don't look now. Turn around! Go back!" But he wasn't fast enough. Mariam saw. A gust of wind blew and parted the drooping branches of the weeping willow like a curtain, and Mariam caught a glimpse of what was beneath the tree: the straight backed chair, overturned. The rope dropping from a high branch. Nana dangling at the end of it.
 
 25 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS 6.
 
