"That's the one thing you can't find on Chicken Street." Rasheed laughed The street was lined with shops and little stalls that sold lambskin hats and rainbow colored chapans. Rasheed stopped to look at an engraved silver dagger in one shop, and, in another, at an old rifle that the shopkeeper assured Rasheed was a relic from the first war against the British.
 
 "And I'm Moshe Dayan," Rasheed muttered. He half smiled, and it seemed to Mariam that this was a smile meant only for her. A private, married smile.
 
 They strolled past carpet shops, handicraft shops, pastry shops, flower shops, and shops that sold suits for men and dresses for women, and, in them, behind lace curtains, Mariam saw young girls sewing buttons and ironing collars. From time to time, Rasheed greeted a shopkeeper he knew, sometimes in Farsi, other times in Pashto. As they shook hands and kissed on the cheek, Mariam stood a few feet away. Rasheed did not wave her over, did not introduce her.
 
 He asked her to wait outside an embroidery shop. "I know the owner," he said. "I'll just go in for a minute, say my salaam. " Mariam waited outside on the crowded sidewalk. She watched the cars crawling up Chicken Street, threading through the horde of hawkers and pedestrians, honking at children and donkeys who wouldn't move. She watched the bored looking merchants inside their tiny stalls, smoking, or spitting into brass spittoons, their faces emerging from the shadows now and then to peddle textiles and fur collaredpoosiincoats to passersby.
 
 But it was the women who drew Mariam's eyes the most.
 
 The women in this part of Kabul were a different breed from the women in the poorer neighborhoods like the one where she and Rasheed lived, where so many of the women covered fully. These women were what was the word Rasheed had used? "modern." Yes, modern Afghan women married to modern Afghan men who did not mind that their wives walked among strangers with makeup on their faces and nothing on their heads. Mariam watched them cantering uninhibited down the street, sometimes with a man, sometimes alone, sometimes with rosy cheeked children who wore shiny shoes and watches with leather bands, who walked bicycles with high rise handlebars and gold colored spokes unlike the children in Deh Mazang, who bore sand fly scars on their cheeks and rolled old bicycle tires with sticks.
 
 These women were all swinging handbags and rustling skirts. Mariam even spotted one smoking behind the wheel of a car. Their nails were long, polished pink or orange, their lips red as tulips. They walked in high heels, and quickly, as if on perpetually urgent business.
 
 They wore dark sunglasses, and, when they breezed by, Mariam caught a whiff of their perfume. She imagined that they all had university degrees, that they worked in office 49 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS buildings, behind desks of their own, where they typed and smoked and made important telephone calls to important people.
 
