I know what I want," Mariam said to Jalil.
 
 It was the spring of 1974, the year Mariam turned fifteen. The three of them were sitting outside the kolba, in a patch of shade thrown by the willows, on folding chairs arranged in a triangle.
 
 "For my birthday…1 know what I want." "You do?" said Jalil, smiling encouragingly.
 
 Two weeks before, at Mariam's prodding, Jalil had let on that an American film was playing at his cinema. It was a special kind of film, what he'd called a cartoon. The entire film was a series of drawings, he said, thousands of them, so that when they were made into a film and projected onto a screen you had the illusion that the drawings were moving. Jalil said the film told the story of an old, childless toymaker who is lonely and desperately wants a son. So he carves a puppet, a boy, who magically comes to life. Mariam had asked him to tell her more, and Jalil said that the old man and his puppet had all sorts of adventures, that there was a place called Pleasure Island, and bad boys who turned into donkeys. They even got swallowed by a whale at the end, the puppet and his father.
 
 Mariam had told Mullah Faizullah all about this film.
 
 "I want you to take me to your cinema," Mariam said now. "I want to see the cartoon. I want to see the puppet boy." With this, Mariam sensed a shift in the atmosphere. Her parents stirred in their seats.
 
 Mariam could feel them exchanging looks.
 
 "That's not a good idea," said Nana. Her voice was calm, had the controlled, polite tone she used around Jalil, but Mariam could feel her hard, accusing glare.
 
 Jalil shifted on his chair. He coughed, cleared his throat.
 
 "You know," he said, "the picture quality isn't that good. Neither is the sound. And the projector's been malfunctioning recently. Maybe your mother is right. Maybe you can think of another present, Mariam jo." "Aneh ,"Nana said. "You see? Your father agrees." * * * But later, at the stream, Mariam said, "Take me." "I'll tell you what," Jalil said. "I'll send someone to pick you up and take you. I'll make sure they get you a good seat and all the candy you want." "Nay. I want you to take me." 18 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS "Mariam jo " "And I want you to invite my brothers and sisters too.
 
