I n the morning, Mariam was given a long sleeved, dark green dress to wear over white cotton trousers. Afsoon gave her a green hijab and a pair of matching sandals.
 
 She was taken to the room with the long, brown table, except now there was a bowl of sugar coated almond candy in the middle of the table, a Koran, a green veil, and a mirror.
 
 Two men Mariam had never seen before witnesses, she presumed and a mullah she did not recognize were already seated at the table.
 
 Jalil showed her to a chair. He was wearing a light brown suit and a red tie. His hair was washed. When he pulled out the chair for her, he tried to smile encouragingly. Khadija and Afsoon sat on Mariam's side of the table this time.
 
 The mullah motioned toward the veil, and Nargis arranged it on Mariam's head before taking a seat. Mariam looked down at her hands.
 
 "You can call him in now," Jalil said to someone.
 
 Mariam smelled him before she saw him. Cigarette smoke and thick, sweet cologne, not faint like Jalil's. The scent of it flooded Mariam's nostrils. Through the veil, from the corner of her eye, Mariam saw a tall man, thick bellied and broad shouldered, stooping in the doorway. The size of him almost made her gasp, and she had to drop her gaze, her heart hammering away. She sensed him lingering in the doorway. Then his slow, heavy footed movement across the room. The candy bowl on the table clinked in tune with his steps.
 
 With a thick grunt, he dropped on a chair beside her. He breathed noisily.
 
 The mullah welcomed them. He said this would not be a traditional nikka.
 
 "I understand that Rasheed agha has tickets for the bus to Kabul that leaves shortly. So, in the interest of time, we will bypass some of the traditional steps to speed up the proceedings." The mullah gave a few blessings, said a few words about the importance of marriage. He asked Jalil if he had any objections to this union, and Jalil shook his head. Then the mullah asked Rasheed if he indeed wished to enter into a marriage contract with Mariam. Rasheed said, "Yes." His harsh, raspy voice reminded Mariam of the sound of dry autumn leaves crushed underfoot.
 
 "And do you, Mariam jan, accept this man as your husband?" Mariam stayed quiet. Throats were cleared.
 
 "She does," a female voice said from down the table.
 
 "Actually," the mullah said, "she herself has to answer. And she should wait until I ask three times. The point is, he's seeking her, not the other way around." 35 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS He asked the question two more times.
 
