Barefoot boys gave chase to cars and buses, waving bags of quinces. Mariam stood at a street corner and watched the passersby, unable to understand how they could be so indifferent to the marvels around them.
 
 After a while, she worked up the nerve to ask the elderly owner of a horse drawngari if he knew where Jalil, the cinema's owner, lived. The old man had plump cheeks and wore a rainbow striped chapan. "You're not from Herat, are you?" he said companionably.
 
 "Everyone knows where Jalil Khan lives." "Can you point me?" He opened a foil-wrapped toffee and said, "Are you alone?" "Yes." "Climb on. I'll take you." "I can't pay you. I don't have any money." He gave her the toffee. He said he hadn't had a ride in two hours and he was planning on going home anyway. Jalil's house was on the way.
 
 Mariam climbed onto the gari. They rode in silence, side by side. On the way there, Mariam saw herb shops, and open fronted cubbyholes where shoppers bought oranges and pears, books, shawls, even falcons. Children played marbles in circles drawn in dust.
 
 Outside teahouses, on carpet-covered wooden platforms, men drank tea and smoked tobacco from hookahs.
 
 The old man turned onto a wide, conifer lined street. He brought his horse to a stop at the midway point.
 
 "There. Looks like you're in luck, dokhiarjo. That's his car." Mariam hopped down. He smiled and rode on.
 
 * * * Mariam had never before touched a car. She ran her fingers along the hood of Jalil's car, which was black, shiny, with glittering wheels in which Mariam saw a flattened, widened version of herself. The seats were made of white leather. Behind the steering wheel, Mariam saw round glass panels with needles behind them.
 
 For a moment, Mariam heard Nana's voice in her head, mocking, dousing the deep seated glow of her hopes. With shaky legs, Mariam approached the front door of the house. She put her hands on the walls. They were so tall, so foreboding, Jalil's walls. She had to crane her neck to see where the tops of cypress trees protruded over them from the other side. The treetops swayed in the breeze, and she imagined they were nodding their welcome to her.
 
 Mariam steadied herself against the waves of dismay passing through her.
 
 22 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS A barefoot young woman opened the door.
 
