" "Is there something you want?" "Mariam jan, I want to…About the things he said the other night " "I have been meaning to talk to you about it." Mariam broke in.
 
 "Yes, please," the girl said earnestly, almost eagerly. She took a step forward. She looked relieved.
 
 Outside, an oriole was warbling. Someone was pulling a cart; Mariam could hear the creaking of its hinges, the bouncing and rattling of its iron wheels. There was the sound of gunfire not so far away, a single shot followed by three more, then nothing.
 
 "I won't be your servant," Mariam said. "I won't." The girl flinched "No. Of course not!" "You may be the palacemalika and me adehati, but I won't take orders from you. You can complain to him and he can slit my throat, but I won't do it. Do you hear me? I won't be your servant." "No! I don't expect " "And if you think you can use your looks to get rid of me, you're wrong. I was here first. I won't be thrown out. I won't have you cast me out." "It's not what I want," the girl said weakly.
 
 "And I see your wounds are healed up now. So you can start doing your share of the work in this house " The girl was nodding quickly. Some of her tea spilled, but she didn't notice. "Yes, that's the other reason I came down, to thank you for taking care of me " "Well, I wouldn't have," Mariam snapped. "I wouldn't have fed you and washed you and nursed you if I'd known you were going to turn around and steal my husband." "Steal " "I will still cook and wash the dishes. You will do the laundry and the sweeping The rest we will alternate daily. And one more thing. I have no use for your company. I don't want it.
 
 What I want is to be alone. You will leave me be, and I will return the favor. That's how we will get on. Those are the rules." When she was done speaking, her heart was hammering and her mouth felt parched.
 
 Mariam had never before spoken in this manner, had never stated her will so forcefully. It ought to have felt exhilarating, but the girl's eyes had teared up and her face was drooping, and what satisfaction Mariam found from this outburst felt meager, somehow illicit.
 
 She extended the shirts toward the girl.
 
 "Put them in thealmari, not the closet. He likes the whites in the top drawer, the rest in the middle, with the socks." The girl set the cup on the floor and put her hands out for the shirts, palms up. "I'm sorry about all of this," she croaked.
 
 "You should be," Mariam said. "You should be sorry." 138 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS 32.
 
