T o Jalil and his wives, I was a pokeroot. A mugwort. You too. And you weren't even born yet." "What's a mugwort?" Mariam asked "A weed," Nana said. "Something you rip out and toss aside." Mariam frowned internally. Jalil didn't treat her as a weed. He never had. But Mariam thought it wise to suppress this protest.
 
 "Unlike weeds, I had to be replanted, you see, given food and water. On account of you.
 
 That was the deal Jalil made with his family." Nana said she had refused to live in Herat.
 
 "For what? To watch him drive his kinchini wives around town all day?" She said she wouldn't live in her father's empty house either, in the village of Gul Daman, which sat on a steep hill two kilometers north of Herat. She said she wanted to live somewhere removed, detached, where neighbors wouldn't stare at her belly, point at her, snicker, or, worse yet, assault her with insincere kindnesses.
 
 "And, believe me," Nana said, "it was a relief to your father having me out of sight. It suited him just fine." It was Muhsin, Jalil's eldest son by his first wife, Khadija, who suggested the clearing. It was on the outskirts of Gul Daman. To get to it, one took a rutted, uphill dirt track that branched off the main road between Herat and Gul Daman. The track was flanked on either side by knee high grass and speckles of white and bright yellow flowers. The track snaked uphill and led to a flat field where poplars and cottonwoods soared and wild bushes grew in clusters. From up there, one could make out the tips of the rusted blades of Gul Daman's windmill, on the left, and, on the right, all of Herat spread below. The path ended perpendicular to a wide, trout-filled stream, which rolled down from the Safid-koh mountains surrounding Gul Daman. Two hundred yards upstream, toward the mountains, there was a circular grove of weeping willow trees. In the center, in the shade of the willows, was the clearing.
 
 Jalil went there to have a look. When he came back, Nana said, he sounded like a warden bragging about the clean walls and shiny floors of his prison.
 
 "And so, your father built us this rathole." * * * Nana had almost married once, when she was fifteen. The suitor had been a boy from Shindand, a young parakeet seller. Mariam knew the story from Nana herself, and, though 8 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS Nana dismissed the episode, Mariam could tell by the wistful light in her eyes that she had been happy.
 
