I want to meet them. I want us all to go, together. It's what I want." Jalil sighed. He was looking away, toward the mountains.
 
 Mariam remembered him telling her that on the screen a human face looked as big as a house, that when a car crashed up there you felt the metal twisting in your bones. She pictured herself sitting in the private balcony seats, lapping at ice cream, alongside her siblings and Jalil. "It's what I want," she said.
 
 Jalil looked at her with a forlorn expression.
 
 "Tomorrow. At noon. I'll meet you at this very spot. All right? Tomorrow?" "Come here," he said. He hunkered down, pulled her to him, and held her for a long, long time.
 
 * * * At first. Nana paced around the kolba, clenching and unclenching her fists.
 
 "Of all the daughters I could have had, why did God give me an ungrateful one like you?
 
 Everything I endured for you! How dare you! How dare you abandon me like this, you treacherous little harami!" Then she mocked.
 
 "What a stupid girl you are! You think you matter to him, that you're wanted in his house?
 
 You think you're a daughter to him? That he's going to take you in? Let me tell you something A man's heart is a wretched, wretched thing, Mariam. It isn't like a mother's womb. It won't bleed, it won't stretch to make room for you. I'm the only one who loves you. I'm all you have in this world, Mariam, and when I'm gone you'll have nothing. You'll have nothing. You are nothing!" Then she tried guilt.
 
 "I'll die if you go. The jinn will come, and I'll have one of my fits. You'll see, I'll swallow my tongue and die. Don't leave me, Mariam jo. Please stay. I'll die if you go." Mariam said nothing.
 
 "You know I love you, Mariam jo." Mariam said she was going for a walk.
 
 She feared she might say hurtful things if she stayed: that she knew the jinn was a lie, that Jalil had told her that what Nana had was a disease with a name and that pills could make it better. She might have asked Nana why she refused to see Jalil's doctors, as he had insisted 19 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS she do, why she wouldn't take the pills he'd bought for her.
 
