Tajiks have always felt slighted, Babi had said. Pashiun kings ruled this country for almost two hundred and fifty years, Laila, and Tajiks for all of nine months, back in 1929.
 
 And you, Laila had asked, do you feel slighted, Babi?
 
 Babi had wiped his eyeglasses clean with the hem of his shirt. To me, it's nonsense and very dangerous nonsense at that all this talk of I'm Tajik and you 're Pashiun and he's Hazara and she's Uzbek. We 're all Afghans, and that's all that should matter. But when one group rules over the others for so long…There is contempt. Rivalry. There is. There always has been.
 
 Maybe so. But Laila never felt it in Tariq's house, where these matters never even came up.
 
 Her time with Tariq's family always felt natural to Laila, effortless, uncomplicated by differences in tribe or language, or by the personal spites and grudges that infected the air at her own home.
 
 "How about a game of cards?" Tariq said.
 
 "Yes, go upstairs," his mother said, swiping disapprovingly at her husband's cloud of smoke. "I'll get the shorwa going." They lay on their stomachs in the middle of Tariq's room and took turns dealing for panjpar. Pedaling air with his foot, Tariq told her about his trip. The peach saplings he had helped his uncle plant. A garden snake he had captured.
 
 This room was where Laila and Tariq did their homework, where they built playing card towers and drew ridiculous portraits of each other. If it was raining, they leaned on the windowsill, drinking warm, fizzy orange Fanta, and watched the swollen rain droplets trickle down the glass.
 
 "All right, here's one," Laila said, shuffling. "What goes around the world but stays in a corner?" "Wait." Tariq pushed himself up and swung his artificial left leg around. Wincing, he lay on his side, leaning on his elbow. "Hand me that pillow." He placed it under his leg. "There.
 
 That's better." Laila remembered the first time he'd shown her his stump. She'd been six. With one finger, she had poked the taut, shiny skin just below his left knee. Her finger had found little hard lumps there, and Tariq had told her they were spurs of bone that sometimes grew after an amputation. She'd asked him if his stump hurt, and he said it got sore at the end of the day, when it swelled and didn't fit the prosthesis like it was supposed to, like a finger in a thimble. And sometimes it gets rubbed Especially when it's hot. Then I get rashes and blisters, but my mother has creams that help. It's not so bad.
 
 Laila had burst into tears.
 
 83 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS What are you crying for?
 
