Mariam had parted the curtain once, just a bit, and caught a glimpse of him. Only a glimpse, but long enough to see that his hair had turned fluffy white, and that he'd started to stoop. He wore glasses, a red tie, as always, and the usual white handkerchief triangle in his breast pocket. Most striking, he was thinner, much thinner, than she remembered, the coat of his dark brown suit drooping over his shoulders, the trousers pooling at his ankles.
 
 Jalil had seen her too, if only for a moment. Their eyes had met briefly through a part in the curtains, as they had met many years earlier through a part in another pair of curtains.
 
 But then Mariam had quickly closed the curtains. She had sat on the bed, waited for him to leave.
 
 She thought now of the letter Jalil had finally left at her door. She had kept it for days, beneath her pillow, picking it up now and then, turning it over in her hands. In the end, she had shredded it unopened.
 
 And now here she was, after all these years, calling him.
 
 Mariam regretted her foolish, youthful pride now. She wished now that she had let him in.
 
 What would have been the harm to let him in, sit with him, let him say what he'd come to say? He was her father. He'd not been a good father, it was true, but how ordinary his faults seemed now, how forgivable, when compared to Rasheed's malice, or to the brutality and violence that she had seen men inflict on one another.
 
 She wished she hadn't destroyed his letter.
 
 A man's deep voice spoke in her ear and informed her that she'd reached the mayor's office in Herat.
 
 Mariam cleared her throat."Salaam, brother, I am looking for someone who lives in Herat.
 
 Or he did, many years ago. His name is Jalil Khan. He lived in Shar-e-Nau and owned the cinema. Do you have any information as to his whereabouts?" The irritation was audible in the man's voice. "This is why you call the mayor's office?" Mariam said she didn't know who else to call. "Forgive me, brother. I know you have important things to tend to, but it is life and death, a question of life and death I am calling about." "I don't know him. The cinema's been closed for many years." "Maybe there's someone there who might know him, someone " "There is no one." Mariam closed her eyes. "Please, brother. There are children involved. Small children." A long sigh.
 
 "Maybe someone there " 184 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS "There's a groundskeeper here.
 
