semester. 

I've learned this lesson over and over in my career. I've been really into deep work for more than ten years, but I still get surprised by how powerful it is. Back in grad school, when I first started focusing on this skill, deep work helped me write two good research papers each year, which is pretty good for a student. I usually finished my work by five on weekdays and rarely worked on weekends, which was not the case for most of my classmates.

As I got closer to becoming a professor, I started to worry. As a student and postdoc, I had a lot of free time, but I knew that would change soon. I wasn’t sure I could fit enough deep work into my busier schedule to stay productive. Instead of just stressing out, I decided to take action: I made a plan to strengthen my deep work skills.

I worked on this plan during my last two years at MIT while looking for professor jobs. My main strategy was to create limits on my schedule to mimic the less free time I expected as a professor. Besides my rule of not working at night, I started taking long lunch breaks to go for a run and eat lunch at home. I also agreed to write my fourth book, "So Good They Can’t Ignore You," during this time, which added more demands on my schedule.

To deal with these new limits, I improved my ability to work deeply. I started blocking out specific hours for deep work and made sure nothing interrupted them. I also learned to think through my ideas while walking a lot each week, which helped my productivity. I became really focused on finding quiet places to work. 

In the summer, I often worked under the dome in the Barker Engineering library, which is a cool, spacious spot that gets too crowded when classes are happening. In the winter, I looked for quieter places and ended up liking the small but nice Lewis Music Library. At one point, I even bought a $50 fancy notebook to work on math proofs, thinking that spending money on it would make me think more carefully.

I was surprised by how well this focus on deep work worked out for me. After I got a job as a computer science professor at Georgetown University,