statistics on how many emails are sent each day and how many words are in each email. He then mixed these numbers with how fast employees type, how fast they read, and their salaries. The result: He found out that Atlantic Media was spending over a million dollars a year just for people to deal with emails, with each email costing the company about ninety-five cents in labor. “A ‘free and easy’ way to communicate,” Cochran said, “actually costs as much as buying a small company jet.”

Tom Cochran’s experiment showed something interesting about the real cost of a behavior that seems harmless. But the main point of this story is the experiment itself, especially how complicated it was. It turns out it’s really hard to answer a simple question like: How do our email habits affect the company’s profits? Cochran had to do a survey across the whole company and collect data from the IT department. He also had to gather salary info and details about typing and reading speeds, then run everything through a statistical model to get his final answer. Even then, the results were tricky because they couldn’t really tell how much value came from all the expensive email use to balance out its cost.

This example applies to most behaviors that can either help or hurt deep work. Even though we generally agree that distractions have costs and deep work is valuable, as Tom Cochran found out, it’s tough to measure these effects. This isn’t just about distractions and deep work; as jobs get more complex, it becomes harder to measure how much each person contributes. The French economist Thomas Piketty pointed this out in his study of the huge rise in executive salaries. He argued that “it’s really hard to measure how much each person adds to a company’s success.” Without these measurements, strange things can happen, like executives getting paid way more than what they actually produce. Even though some parts of Piketty’s theory are debated, most people agree that it’s getting harder to measure individual contributions.

So, we shouldn’t expect the impact of behaviors that hurt deep work to be easy to spot. As Tom Cochran found, these measurements fall into a tricky area that’s hard to measure—a place I call the metric black hole.

Of course, just because it’s tough to measure the effects of deep work doesn’t mean businesses will ignore it. There are many examples of behaviors that are hard to measure but still matter.