The story is well-known in the business consulting world. In the mid-1990s, a Harvard Business School professor named Clayton Christensen got a call from Andy Grove, the CEO of Intel. Grove had read Christensen’s research on disruptive innovation and wanted him to come to California to talk about it. When Christensen arrived, he explained how big companies can be taken down by new start-ups that start with cheap products. Over time, these start-ups improve their products enough to take away customers from the more expensive brands. Grove realized that Intel was at risk from cheaper processors made by new companies like AMD and Cyrix. With this new knowledge, Grove created a strategy that led to the Celeron processors, which were less powerful but helped Intel stay strong against the competition.

There’s another part of this story that isn’t as well-known. During a break in their meeting, Grove asked Christensen, “How do I do this?” Christensen started talking about business strategy and how Grove could set up a new business unit. But Grove interrupted him, saying, “You are such a naïve academic. I asked you how to do it, and you told me what I should do. I know what I need to do. I just don’t know how to do it.” 

Christensen later explained that this difference between what and how is really important but often ignored in the business world. It’s usually easy to figure out a strategy to reach a goal, but companies struggle with how to actually make that strategy happen. I found this story in a foreword Christensen wrote for a book called The 4 Disciplines of Execution. This book talks about four “disciplines” (called 4DX) that help companies successfully carry out their big strategies. As I read, I realized that the gap between what and how was also relevant to my own goal of working more deeply. Just like Andy Grove saw the need to compete in the low-end processor market, I recognized the need to focus on depth in my work. What I really needed was help figuring out how to make that happen.

Curious about these connections, I decided to adapt the 4DX framework to my own work habits. I was surprised by how helpful it was in pushing me to take effective action toward my goal of working deeply. These ideas were created for big businesses, but they seem to apply anywhere important work needs to be done, especially when there are many distractions. With that in mind, I’ve summarized the four disciplines of the 4DX framework below, and I’ll explain how I adapted each one to help me develop a deep work habit.