“Definitely true,” says Jim Manzi in his review of Piketty’s book. You can find it in the National Review from July 7, 2014. This is where I first saw the Piketty quote.

The Principle of Least Resistance

“At first, the team didn’t want to do it,” and they were “worried about their jobs.” But they ended up delivering a better product to the client. You can read more about Leslie Perlow’s research on this in her article with Jessica L. Porter called “Making Time Off Predictable—and Required” in the Harvard Business Review from October 2009. For more info on David Allen’s task management system, check out his book, Getting Things Done, published by Viking in 2001. You can also find his fifteen-step task management flowchart in the book and online.

Busyness as a Proxy for Productivity

The h-index for a researcher is basically the highest number x that follows this rule: “I have published at least x papers that have x or more citations.” This means it shows how many papers you’ve written and how often people reference them. You can’t just write a bunch of low-quality papers or a few that get cited a lot to get a high h-index. This number usually increases over a career, which is why many fields set h-index goals for certain career milestones.

“To do real good physics work” is something Richard Feynman said in a 1981 TV interview for the BBC. I watched this interview on YouTube while researching this book, but it’s been taken down because of a copyright issue. You can find transcripts of what he said at various links online.

“Managers themselves inhabit a bewildering psychic landscape” is a quote from Matthew Crawford’s book, Shop Class as Soulcraft, published by Penguin in 2009. 

“Cranking widgets” is a popular term used when talking about David Allen’s task management system. You can find more about it in interviews and blog posts by different authors.

For more on Marissa Mayer’s rule against working from home, check out an article by Nicholas Carlson on Business Insider from March 2, 2013.

The Cult of the Internet

Alissa Rubin tweets at @Alissanyt. I don’t have proof that she was forced to tweet, but I know that there can be pressure to stay active online.