Workers are not just slacking off. They say they are busier than ever. So, what's going on? A big part of the answer has to do with a different kind of work called shallow work.

Shallow work includes tasks that aren’t too hard and can be done while distracted. These tasks don’t really create much new value and are easy for anyone to do. Nowadays, people who work with knowledge are often replacing deep work with shallow tasks. They spend a lot of time sending and receiving emails, like they’re routers for information, and take frequent breaks to get distracted. Bigger tasks that need deep thinking, like coming up with a new business plan or writing an important grant, get broken up into short, distracted bursts that don’t turn out very well.

To make things worse, there’s growing evidence that this shift to shallow work isn’t something we can easily change back. If you spend too much time in this distracted state, it can permanently lower your ability to focus and do deep work. Journalist Nicholas Carr talked about this in a famous article in 2008, saying, “What the Net seems to be doing is chipping away my capacity for concentration and contemplation.” He realized he wasn’t the only one feeling this way.

Carr even wrote a book called The Shallows, which was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize. To write it, he had to go to a cabin and cut himself off from distractions. The idea that online tools are pushing us away from deep work isn’t new. The Shallows was just the first of many recent books that look at how the Internet affects our brains and work habits. Other books like Hamlet’s BlackBerry by William Powers, The Tyranny of E-mail by John Freeman, and The Distraction Addiction by Alex Soojung-Kin Pang all agree that these online tools are making it harder for us to focus on work that needs our full attention, while also making it tougher for us to stay focused.

Since there’s already a lot of evidence about this, I won’t spend more time in this book trying to prove it. I hope we can agree that online tools have a negative effect on deep work. I’ll also skip any big debates about what this shift means for society, since those arguments can get really complicated. On one side, there are people like Jaron Lanier and John Freeman who think these tools can harm society. On the other side, there are techno-optimists like Clive Thompson who believe these tools are changing society for the better. For example, Google might make us forget things more easily, but we don’t really need to remember everything because we can just search for it whenever we want.