Benn needed to learn a tough skill, and he had to do it quickly.

This is where Benn faced the same problem many people have when trying to grow their careers fast. Learning something hard like computer programming takes a lot of focus and deep thinking—the kind of focus that made Carl Jung go into the woods near Lake Zurich. In other words, it takes deep work.

But most people who work with information have lost the ability to do deep work. Benn was no different.

“I kept going on the Internet and checking my e-mail; I couldn’t stop; it was like an addiction,” Benn said, talking about himself before he quit his finance job. To explain how hard it was for him to focus, Benn told me about a project his boss gave him. “They asked me to write a business plan,” he said. Benn didn’t know how to write one, so he decided to find and read five different plans to figure it out. This was a smart idea, but Benn had a problem: “I couldn’t stay focused.” He admits that some days, he spent almost all his time (“98 percent of my time”) just surfing the web.

Because of this, the business plan project—a chance to stand out early in his career—got ignored.

When he quit, Benn knew he had trouble focusing deeply. So, when he started learning to code, he also worked on training his brain to focus better. His way was extreme but worked. “I locked myself in a room with no computer: just textbooks, notecards, and a highlighter.” He would highlight the programming books, copy the ideas onto notecards, and then read them out loud. At first, being without electronic distractions was really hard, but Benn didn’t give himself a choice: he had to learn, so he made sure nothing could distract him. Over time, he got better at focusing and eventually spent five or more hours a day in that room, fully focused on learning. “I probably read about eighteen books on the topic by the time I finished,” he said.

After studying alone for two months, Benn joined Dev Bootcamp, a super hard, 100-hour-a-week program for learning web programming. (While looking into the program, Benn found a student with a PhD from Princeton who called Dev the hardest thing they’d ever done.) Thanks to his preparation and new focus skills, Benn did really well.
