Once you know the important variables or ideas you need to focus on, figure out the next question you need to answer using those variables. For example, if you're writing a chapter, your question could be, “How do I start this chapter well?” If you're working on a proof, it might be, “What could go wrong if I don’t assume this is true?” Once you have your variables and your next question, you have a clear goal to focus on.

If you can solve that question, the last step is to review your answer carefully. This helps you understand what you learned. After that, you can challenge yourself again by starting the process over. This cycle of reviewing what you learned, figuring out the next question, and then checking your answer is like a workout for your brain. It helps you get more out of your thinking sessions and speeds up how quickly you can improve your focus.

Daniel Kilov can memorize a shuffled deck of cards, a hundred random digits, or 115 abstract shapes in just five minutes. He even set a record in Australia for memorizing shapes! It’s no surprise that he won silver medals in the Australian memory championships. What’s surprising is that he didn’t always have an amazing memory.

Kilov said, “I wasn’t born with a great memory.” In high school, he thought he was forgetful and messy. He had a hard time with school and was diagnosed with attention deficit disorder. Everything changed when he met Tansel Ali, a famous memory champion. Kilov started training his memory seriously. By the time he finished college, he had already won his first medal in a national competition.

His change into a top memory athlete happened quickly, but it’s not the first time it’s happened. In 2006, Joshua Foer, an American writer, won the USA Memory Championship after just a year of hard training, which he wrote about in his book, *Moonwalking with Einstein*. What’s important about Kilov’s story is how his school performance improved while he was training his memory. He went from struggling with attention deficit disorder to graduating from a tough Australian university.