cultivate important sources, gather facts, and write articles that really stand out. 

People like Alissa Rubin help the Times keep its good reputation, and that reputation is what helps the paper make money, especially when there’s so much click-bait everywhere. So why does Alissa have to stop her serious work to create simple content for a different media company in Silicon Valley, and why does this seem normal to so many? If we can figure this out, we’ll understand why deep work is becoming so rare.

A clue to our answer comes from Neil Postman, a communication expert and NYU professor who passed away. In the early 1990s, when personal computers were becoming popular, he warned that our society was developing a bad relationship with technology. He noticed that we stopped talking about the good and bad sides of new tech. Instead, we just assumed that if it’s high-tech, it must be good. 

He called this kind of culture a technopoly and warned against it. He said, “Technopoly makes other options invisible and irrelevant,” meaning we don’t even think about them anymore. Postman died in 2003, but if he were here today, he’d probably be shocked at how quickly his worries came true, especially with the rise of the Internet.

Luckily, there’s someone today who continues this discussion: Evgeny Morozov, a social critic. In his 2013 book, To Save Everything, Click Here, Morozov tries to show us how obsessed we are with “the Internet.” He puts the term in quotes to highlight how it’s become more of an idea than just a bunch of cables and routers. He says, “We see ‘the Internet’ as a source of wisdom and advice, turning it into a powerful ideology.”

Morozov argues that we’ve linked “the Internet” to the future of business and government. Making your company more like “the Internet” means you’re keeping up with the times, while ignoring these trends makes you outdated, like someone who made buggy whips when cars became popular. We don’t think of Internet tools as products made by companies trying to make money anymore.