Lewis worries that being too easy to reach will drain his energy and make it harder for him to research and write great stories. He says, “It’s crazy how available people are all the time. A lot of the talks I have don’t help me; they actually make things worse.” Packer is worried about getting distracted. He says, “Twitter is like a drug for people who love media.” He even calls Carr’s praise of Twitter “the scariest picture of the future I’ve seen so far this decade.”  

We don’t need to argue if these writers are right to avoid Twitter and similar tools because their success shows they made good choices. Instead, we can see their decisions as brave examples of carefully choosing tools. Many people who work with ideas, especially creative ones, still believe any tool that helps a little is good. It’s nice to see some people thinking more carefully about which tools really help.  

But these clear and confident choices are rare. Remember how hard it was for Forrest Pritchard to decide on his hay baler? For many people and tools, these choices are just as tricky. The goal here is to give you a way to make these decisions easier by helping you figure out which tools really matter to you.  

The first step is to figure out your main big goals in both your work and personal life. For example, if you have a family, your personal goals might be to be a good parent and keep your home organized. Your work goals depend on what job you have.  

For example, as a professor, I have two big goals: to be a good teacher and mentor to my students, and to be a good researcher. Your goals might be different, but the key is to keep them simple and focused on what’s really important. Don’t make them too specific, like “make a million dollars” or “publish six papers in one year.” When you finish, you should have a few important goals for both your personal and work life.  

After you know your goals, write down the two or three most important things you do to reach each goal. These should be clear enough that you can picture yourself doing them, but not too specific that they only happen once. For example, “do better research” is too vague—what does “better research” really look like?
