Before we get into the details, let’s talk about a popular idea for dealing with distraction that doesn’t really fix the problem: the Internet Sabbath (also known as a digital detox). Basically, this is when you set aside a regular time—usually one day a week—where you don’t use any technology. Just like the Sabbath in the Hebrew Bible is a time for quiet and reflection to appreciate God, the Internet Sabbath is meant to help you notice what you miss when you’re always staring at a screen.

We’re not sure who came up with the Internet Sabbath idea first, but a journalist named William Powers is often credited for making it popular. He talked about it in his 2010 book, Hamlet’s BlackBerry, where he reflects on technology and happiness. Powers summed it up in an interview by saying, “Do what Thoreau did, which is learn to have a little disconnectedness within the connected world—don’t run away.”

A lot of advice about dealing with distraction follows this idea of taking breaks from the noise. Some people take a month or two off each year from technology, others follow Powers’s advice of taking one day a week off, and some just take an hour or two every day. All of these methods can help a bit, but when we think about how our brains work, it’s clear that an Internet Sabbath alone won’t fix a distracted brain. If you eat healthy just one day a week, you probably won’t lose weight because most of the time you’re still eating junk. The same goes for taking just one day a week to avoid distractions; it’s not enough to reduce your brain’s craving for them since most of your time is still spent giving in.

I have a different idea than the Internet Sabbath. Instead of planning breaks from distractions to help you focus, you should plan breaks from focusing to allow yourself to be distracted. To make this clearer, let’s say that using the Internet means looking for distractions. (Sure, you can use the Internet in a focused way, but that’s tough for someone who’s addicted to distractions.) On the other hand, working without the Internet means you’re more focused. (You can still find ways to get distracted without the Internet, but those are usually easier to resist.)

With these ideas in mind, here’s the plan: decide in advance when you’ll use the Internet, and then avoid it completely outside of those times. I suggest keeping a notepad next to your computer at work. On this pad,