People like Alissa Rubin help give the New York Times its good reputation. This reputation is very important because it helps the paper succeed, especially now when lots of websites use click-bait to get attention. So why is Alissa Rubin often asked to stop her deep, serious work to create quick, simple content for a company in Silicon Valley that has nothing to do with the Times? Even more, why does this seem normal to most people? If we can answer these questions, we’ll better understand why deep work has become so rare.

A clue comes from a warning by Neil Postman, a communication expert and professor from New York University. In the early 1990s, when personal computers were becoming popular, Postman said our society was starting to have a bad relationship with technology. He noticed that we stopped thinking about the good and bad sides of new technology. Instead, we just assumed if something was high-tech, it had to be good. No questions asked.

He called this kind of culture a “technopoly,” and he warned strongly against it. In his 1993 book, he said technopoly doesn’t make other options illegal or unpopular—it just makes them invisible and unimportant. Postman passed away in 2003, but if he were alive today, he’d probably be shocked at how fast his warnings came true, mostly because of the rise of the Internet.

Luckily, another thinker named Evgeny Morozov has continued this idea in the Internet Age. In his 2013 book, To Save Everything, Click Here, Morozov explains how people treat “the Internet” like it’s some kind of all-knowing force. He puts “the Internet” in quotes to show it’s more like a belief than just technology. Morozov says we think the Internet is the future of business and government. If your company acts like “the Internet,” you’re cool and modern. If you don’t, you’re like someone still making horse-drawn carriages when cars are everywhere. We forget that Internet tools are just products made by companies trying to make money, run by young people who are often figuring things out as they go.
