This study is one of many that prove attention restoration theory (ART), which says that spending time in nature can help you focus better. This idea was first made in the 1980s by two psychologists from the University of Michigan, Rachel Kaplan and Stephen Kaplan. Stephen helped write the 2008 study we’re talking about, along with Marc Berman and John Jonides. ART is based on something called attention fatigue. To focus, you need what ART calls directed attention. This is a limited resource: if you use it all up, it gets hard to concentrate. (You can think of it like willpower, which is also limited.) The 2008 study says that walking on busy city streets uses a lot of directed attention because you have to do tricky things like figuring out when to cross the street safely or get around slow tourists. After just fifty minutes of this, your directed attention gets low.

Walking in nature is different. It gives you what Marc Berman calls “inherently fascinating stimuli,” like sunsets. These things grab your attention just a little bit, which lets your focused attention rest and get stronger again. In other words, when you walk in nature, you don’t have to use your directed attention as much because there aren’t many challenges, like crowded streets. At the same time, nature is interesting enough to keep your mind busy without needing to focus hard. This helps your directed attention refill. After fifty minutes in nature, people’s concentration got better.

You might think that maybe being outside watching a sunset just makes people feel happy, and that’s why they do better. But the researchers tested this during a cold winter in Ann Arbor. Walking outside in freezing weather didn’t make people happy, but they still focused better afterward. What really matters is that ART shows you can restore your ability to focus if you let your brain take a break from directed attention. Walking in nature is one way to do this, but so are other relaxing activities that give your mind a break and have interesting things to pay attention to. Talking with a friend, listening to music while cooking, playing games with your kids, or going for a run—all these activities can help your attention recover, just like walking in nature.
