The strategies before and after this one will help you reach this goal. For most people in jobs that aren’t entry-level but involve thinking work, about 30 to 50 percent of their time is spent on easy, unskilled tasks. People don’t like spending most of their time on boring tasks, so 50 percent feels like the maximum. But if it’s less than 30 percent, bosses might worry you’re only thinking and not answering emails or doing other small tasks.

Following this plan means you’ll need to change how you work. You’ll probably have to say no to some projects that seem pointless and also cut down on the easy tasks in your current work. For example, you might stop having weekly status meetings and instead just update your boss when you make big progress. You might also spend more mornings without talking to anyone or stop feeling like you have to reply quickly to every email you’re copied on.

These changes help you focus on important, deep work. You won’t stop doing all the easy stuff because you still need to do some, but you will limit how much unimportant work sneaks into your schedule. This will free up time for you to do serious, focused work regularly.

It’s important to talk with your boss about these changes first. Agreeing with your boss means your workplace supports you when you say no to some tasks or change projects to cut down on easy work. You can explain that you need to keep a good balance between deep and shallow work. As I said in Chapter 2, shallow work piles up because we don’t notice how much time it takes. We look at tasks one by one and think each one is fine. But the tools I mentioned earlier help you see the total time spent on shallow work clearly. Now you can tell your boss exactly how much time you spent on easy tasks last week and ask for approval. When your boss sees the numbers and realizes it’s a waste to have a skilled worker spend 30 hours a week on emails and meetings, they’ll understand why you need to say no to some things and make others simpler—even if it’s less convenient for everyone.
