inventor, Jorge Hirsch, created a way to combine your publication and citation counts into one number that shows how much of an impact you have in your field. For example, in computer science, getting an h-index score over 40 is really hard, and if you do, it means you’ve had a strong career. But if your h-index is in the single digits when you’re up for tenure review, that’s not good news for you. Google Scholar, a tool that helps academics find research papers, even calculates your h-index automatically, so you can see how you’re doing multiple times a week. (By the way, as I write this, my score is 21.)

This clear scoring system helps professors decide what work habits to keep or get rid of. For instance, the late Nobel Prize-winning physicist Richard Feynman talked about one of his unique ways to be productive in an interview. He said, “To do real good physics work, you need solid blocks of time… it requires a lot of focus… if you have a job managing anything, you won’t have that time. So I made up a story for myself: that I’m irresponsible. I’m actively irresponsible. I tell everyone I don’t do anything. If someone asks me to join a committee for admissions, I say, ‘no,’ because I’m irresponsible.”

Feynman avoided administrative tasks because he knew they would take away from what mattered most to him: doing great physics work. He probably wasn’t great at replying to emails and would likely leave a university if they tried to put him in an office or make him tweet. Knowing what’s important helps you understand what isn’t.

I mention professors because they are a bit different from most knowledge workers, who often don’t have clear ways to see how well they’re doing their jobs. Social critic Matthew Crawford described this confusion by saying, “Managers themselves live in a confusing mental space and feel anxious about the unclear goals they have to meet.” While Crawford was talking about middle managers in knowledge work, this “confusing mental space” applies to many jobs in this area. In his 2009 book, Shop Class as Soulcraft, Crawford shared that he quit his job as a director in a think tank to open a motorcycle repair shop to escape this confusion. He enjoyed taking a broken bike, working on it, and then feeling satisfied when it drove out of the shop on its own.