stubbornly remain. In a Wall Street Journal article, writer Laura Vanderkam shared some interesting facts. A survey by the National Sleep Foundation showed that Americans think they sleep about seven hours a night. But when people actually measured their sleep, it turned out to be around 8.6 hours. Another study found that people who said they worked sixty to sixty-four hours a week were really working about forty-four hours. Those who claimed to work more than seventy-five hours were actually working less than fifty-five.

These examples highlight an important point: We often go through our day without really thinking about how we spend our time. This is a problem. It’s hard to stop wasting time if you don’t take a good look at how much time you spend on important work versus unimportant stuff. You need to get into the habit of pausing and asking yourself, “What should I be doing right now?” The strategy I’ll explain next is meant to help you do this. It might sound a bit extreme at first, but it will really help you make the most of your time for deep work: Schedule every minute of your day.

Here’s what you should do: At the start of each workday, grab a new page in a notebook just for this. On the left side of the page, write down the hours you work, leaving a line between each hour. Now, here’s the key part: Break your work hours into blocks and decide what you’ll do in each block. For example, you could set aside nine a.m. to eleven a.m. for writing a client’s press release. Draw a box around those hours and write “press release” inside it. Not every block has to be for work tasks. You can also have blocks for lunch or breaks. To keep things neat, make sure each block is at least thirty minutes long (that’s one line on your page). This way, instead of making a tiny box for every little task like replying to your boss’s email or asking Carl about a report, you can group similar tasks together into bigger blocks. 

You might want to draw a line from a task block to the right side of the page where you can list all the small tasks you plan to do in that block. When you finish scheduling your day, every minute should be part of a block. You’ve basically given every minute of your workday a job. Now, as you go through your day, use this schedule to help you stay on track.

This is where most people start to have problems. Two things can happen.