life,” Gallagher wraps up in her book. “I’ll pick my goals carefully… then really focus on them. Basically, I’ll live a focused life because it’s the best way to live.” We should definitely take her advice.

A Psychological Argument for Depth

The second reason why focusing on things deeply gives our lives meaning comes from a famous psychologist named Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi. In the early 1980s, he worked with a younger colleague, Reed Larson, at the University of Chicago. They created a new way to understand how everyday activities affect our minds. Back then, it was hard to measure how different things made people feel. If you brought someone into a lab and asked them to remember how they felt hours ago, they probably wouldn’t remember well. If you gave them a diary to write in throughout the day, they likely wouldn’t keep it up because it was too much work.

Csikszentmihalyi and Larson had a great idea. They used new technology (for that time) to ask people about their feelings right when it mattered. They gave people pagers that would beep at random times. When the beep went off, the people would write down what they were doing and how they felt at that moment. Sometimes they used journals, and other times they called a number to answer questions from a researcher. Because the beeps were random but hard to ignore, people were more likely to respond. And since they were recording their feelings right when they were doing something, their answers were more accurate. They called this method the experience sampling method (ESM), and it gave us a better understanding of how we really feel in our daily lives.

One of the big discoveries from Csikszentmihalyi’s work with ESM supported a theory he had been developing for ten years: “The best moments usually happen when a person’s body or mind is pushed to its limits in a voluntary effort to achieve something challenging and meaningful.” He named this mental state flow (a term he made popular with a book in 1990). At the time, this finding went against what most people believed. Many thought that relaxing was the key to happiness. We often want to work less and have more free time.