People in these kinds of jobs often do well without focusing deeply because their work life is always busy and full of distractions. For example, Kerry Trainor, the CEO of Vimeo, talks about how long he can go without checking e-mail: “I can go most of a Saturday without it… I’ll check it, but I don’t always reply right away.”

These executives get paid a lot and are very important in today’s economy. Jack Dorsey is another example of a successful leader who doesn’t focus deeply all the time. But even though this is true for them, it doesn’t mean that deep focus isn’t important for most people.

The reason these leaders can work like this is because their jobs are very unique. A good CEO is like a smart decision-making machine. They have lots of experience and know their market well. Throughout the day, they get information from emails, meetings, and visits that they need to handle quickly. Asking a CEO to spend hours deeply thinking about one problem isn’t a good use of their time. It’s smarter to have their team think deeply and then bring ideas to the CEO to make the final call.

This idea is important because if you’re a top executive, you probably don’t need the advice in this book. But that doesn’t mean other people’s jobs work the same way. Just because leaders like Dorsey or Trainor are always checking emails doesn’t mean you will be successful if you do the same. Their habits fit their specific roles.

You should also remember this rule when you think about other examples where deep work isn’t valued. Besides executives, some salespeople and lobbyists rely on constant connection to do their jobs. Some people even manage to succeed without deep focus in areas where it might help.

But don’t quickly decide your job doesn’t need deep work.

Just because your current habits make it hard to focus deeply doesn’t mean you can’t do your job better by doing so. In the next chapter, for example, I share a story about a group of busy management consultants who thought they had to stay connected to their e-mails all the time to help their clients.
