sign in enough throughout the day. She was, in a way, punishing her workers for not spending more time checking emails, which is one of the main reasons to log in to the servers. “If you’re not looking busy,” she indicated, “I’ll think you’re not getting anything done.”

But if you look at it fairly, this idea is outdated. Knowledge work isn’t like a factory assembly line, and getting value from information often means you can’t just be busy all the time. For example, remember Adam Grant, the super-smart professor from the last chapter? He became the youngest full professor at Wharton by shutting himself off from distractions to focus on writing. This is the opposite of being busy all the time. If Grant worked for Yahoo, Marissa Mayer might have fired him. But his strategy actually led to a lot of great work.

We could get rid of this outdated idea of needing to look busy if we could easily show that it hurts the company’s profits. But here’s the problem: it’s hard to measure how effective different work strategies are. This mix of unclear job roles and no good way to measure success lets silly behaviors continue in the confusing world of our daily work.

Next, we’ll see that even people who know how to succeed in their knowledge jobs can still get distracted. All it takes is a tempting idea that makes you forget common sense.

The Cult of the Internet

Take Alissa Rubin, for example. She’s the bureau chief for the New York Times in Paris. Before that, she was in Kabul, Afghanistan, reporting on the aftermath of the war. While I was writing this chapter, she was publishing tough articles about how the French government was involved in the Rwandan genocide. Rubin is a serious journalist who knows her stuff. But, probably because her job pushes her to do so, she tweets.

Rubin’s Twitter shows that she tweets every few days, almost like she’s getting reminders from the Times’ social media team to keep her followers happy. Most of her tweets just mention articles she liked. Rubin is a reporter, not a social media star. Her real value to her paper is her ability to report important news.

**PAGE SUMMARY:** The passage discusses how some workplaces wrongly value being busy over actual productivity. It highlights the story of journalist Alissa Rubin, who, despite her serious work, feels pressured to tweet regularly, showing how distractions can pull even skilled workers away from their main tasks.