At the same time, the bimodal philosophy is usually used by people who can't do well without committing to both serious and fun activities. For example, Jung needed his job as a therapist to make money and the coffeehouse scene in Zurich to help him think better. Switching between these two types of activities helped him meet both needs.

A modern example of this bimodal philosophy is Adam Grant, a professor at Wharton Business School. His schedule during his rise in the academic world shows how this works. He packed his classes into one semester so he could focus on deep work in the other semester. During those deep work periods, he would take a few days, once or twice a month, to really dive into his research. He would shut his door, turn on an out-of-office message for his email, and work without any interruptions. But outside of those deep work sessions, Grant was known for being very open and available. He had to be, especially since his popular book, *Give and Take*, talks about the importance of giving your time and attention to others without expecting anything back to get ahead in your career.

People who use the bimodal philosophy of deep work admire how productive those who focus deeply can be, but they also see the value in lighter tasks in their work lives. The biggest challenge with this philosophy is that even short periods of deep work need a level of flexibility that many people feel they don’t have. If just stepping away from your emails for an hour makes you anxious, then taking a day or more off seems impossible. However, I think bimodal working can fit into more jobs than you might think. For instance, a study by Harvard Business School professor Leslie Perlow showed that a group of management consultants was asked to take a full day off each week. They were worried their clients would get upset, but it turned out the clients didn’t mind at all. Just like Jung, Grant, and Perlow’s study participants found out, people usually respect your need to be unavailable if you plan it out and let them know ahead of time. When you’re not in deep work mode, you can still be easily reached.

The Rhythmic Philosophy of Deep Work Scheduling

In the early days of the *Seinfeld* show, Jerry Seinfeld was still a working comedian who...