In the 1920s, Jung was trying to break away from his mentor, Sigmund Freud. He started going to a simple stone house he built in the woods near a small town called Bollingen. Every morning, Jung would lock himself in a basic room to write without any distractions. After writing, he would meditate and take walks in the woods to help clear his mind for the next day’s writing. I believe he did this to make his work stronger so he could compete with Freud and his supporters.

It's important to note that Jung didn’t completely cut himself off from the world like some others did. People like Donald Knuth and Neal Stephenson tried to remove all distractions from their lives. But Jung only did this when he was at his retreat. The rest of the time, he lived in Zurich, where he was super busy. He had a clinical practice and saw patients late into the night. He also enjoyed the coffeehouse scene in Zurich and attended many lectures at local universities. Interestingly, Einstein, who got his doctorate from one of those universities, knew Jung and they had dinner together to talk about Einstein’s ideas.

Jung’s life in Zurich was a lot like what we see today with busy tech workers. If you switch “Zurich” with “San Francisco” and “letter” with “tweet,” it sounds like we’re talking about a hotshot CEO. Jung’s way of working is what I call the bimodal philosophy of deep work. This means you split your time between focused work and everything else. During the focused time, you really concentrate and avoid distractions. During the other time, you can do whatever you want without that level of focus.

You can divide your time in different ways. For example, you might spend a long weekend focusing on deep work and use the rest of the week for other things. Or, over a year, you could dedicate one season to deep work, like many teachers do during summer break. The bimodal philosophy says that deep work can lead to amazing productivity, but you need to spend enough time on it to really get into a focused state where big ideas happen. That’s why they suggest that deep work sessions should be at least a full day long. Just a few hours in the morning isn’t enough for this approach.