away from traditional crops and toward the new idea of grass-finished meat. The farm skips selling to stores—you won’t find Smith Meadows steaks in Whole Foods—and sells directly to people at busy farmers’ markets in the Washington, D.C., area. The farm is doing really well in an industry that usually doesn’t support small businesses.

I first met Pritchard at our local farmers’ market in Takoma Park, Maryland, where the Smith Meadows booth is popular. Pritchard is usually taller than most of his customers and often wears a worn flannel shirt like many farmers do. He seems really confident in what he does. I introduced myself because farming is all about using tools wisely, and I wanted to learn how someone in a hands-on job handles this important part.

“Making hay is a good example,” he told me during one of our talks. “I can explain the basics without skipping over the important money stuff.”

When Pritchard took over Smith Meadows, he said the farm made its own hay to feed the animals during winter when they can’t graze. Haymaking uses a machine called a hay baler, which you pull behind a tractor to pack dried grass into bales. If you raise animals on the East Coast, you definitely need hay. Why spend money buying feed when you have grass growing for free? If a farmer thought like a typical office worker, they would buy a hay baler. But Pritchard told me (after joking a bit) that if a farmer thought that simply, “I’d be counting the days until the ‘For Sale’ sign goes up on the property.” Instead, he and other farmers think more deeply about their tools. After thinking it through, Pritchard decided to sell the hay baler: Smith Meadows now buys all the hay it needs.

Here’s why…

“Let’s talk about the costs of making hay,” Pritchard said. “First, there’s the cost of fuel, repairs, and the shed to store the baler. You also have to pay taxes on it.” These costs were the easy part of his decision. The harder part was thinking about the “opportunity costs.” He explained: “If I spend all summer making hay, I can’t do something else. For example, I now use that time to raise chickens for meat.” These chickens make money for the farm.