She was kind of punishing her workers for not spending enough time checking their e-mails, which is one of the main reasons they log into the servers. “If you’re not seen as busy,” she was saying, “I’ll think you’re not getting much done.” But actually, this idea is old-fashioned. Knowledge work isn’t like working on a factory line, and getting useful information often means you can’t just be busy all the time.

Think about Adam Grant, a professor we talked about earlier, who became the youngest full professor at Wharton by blocking out distractions and focusing on writing. That’s the opposite of looking busy in public. If he worked for Yahoo, Marissa Mayer might have fired him. But his deep focus created a lot of value.

We could stop believing that being busy means you’re productive if we could clearly show it hurts the company’s results. But it’s hard to measure exactly how well different work methods perform. This mix of unclear job goals and no clear way to measure success lets strange behaviors seem normal in today’s confusing work life.

Even people who know what it takes to do well in knowledge jobs can still get distracted. Sometimes, a strong idea can trick you into ignoring what makes sense.

Now, think about Alissa Rubin. She’s the New York Times’ boss in Paris. Before that, she was the boss in Kabul, Afghanistan, reporting from dangerous places. Recently, she wrote important articles exposing the French government’s role in the Rwandan genocide. Rubin is a serious reporter who’s good at her job. But, probably because her employer wants her to, she also tweets.

Her Twitter shows a slow, kind of boring stream of messages, about one every two to four days, like she gets reminders from the Times’ social media team to keep her followers happy. Most of her tweets just share articles she recently read and liked.

Rubin is a reporter, not a social media star. What makes her valuable is her ability to find important sources, gather facts, and write powerful articles.
