you might need to understand how people work together and how projects really get done at your job. You might be thinking if a recent college grad needs to know a lot about the project topic. For a planning meeting, probably not. Those meetings usually don’t get into the details and often have a lot of small talk where people act like they’re really involved without actually doing much. Give a smart recent grad three months to learn the basics, and they could easily fit in during those chats. So, let’s say three months is the answer.

This question is just a way to think about things (I’m not saying you should actually hire a recent college grad for easy tasks). But the answers will help you see how deep or shallow different activities are. If our imaginary college grad needs a lot of training to do a task, it means that task needs real skills. As mentioned before, tasks that need your skills are usually deeper tasks, which can give you more value for your time and help you get better at what you do. On the flip side, if a college grad can learn a task quickly, it means that task is shallow.

So, what should you do with this idea? Once you know where your tasks fall on the deep-to-shallow scale, focus more on the deep ones. For example, if we look back at our case studies, the first task is something you should prioritize because it’s a good use of your time, while the second and third tasks are ones you should try to do less. They might feel busy, but they don’t give you much back for the time you spend.

Of course, figuring out how to move away from shallow tasks and towards deeper ones isn’t always easy, even if you know how to label your commitments. This leads us to the next strategies, which will give you specific tips on how to achieve this tricky goal.

Ask Your Boss About Shallow Work Time

Here’s an important question that doesn’t get asked much: What percentage of my time should I spend on shallow work? This strategy suggests you should ask it. If you have a boss, talk to them about this question. (You might need to explain what “shallow” and “deep” work mean first.) If you’re your own boss, ask yourself this question. In both cases, come up with a specific answer. Then—