Discipline #1: Focus on What’s Most Important

The authors of *The 4 Disciplines of Execution* say, “The more you try to do, the less you actually get done.” They suggest that you should focus on a few really important goals. Keeping it simple helps everyone put their energy into achieving real results.

If you want to do great work, you should pick a few big goals to focus on during your work time. Just saying “work harder” doesn’t really motivate anyone. But having a clear goal that can lead to real benefits will keep you excited. In a 2014 article called “The Art of Focus,” David Brooks talked about how having big goals can help you stay focused. He said, “If you want to win the battle for attention, don’t just try to ignore the little distractions; focus on what you really want, and let that passion push everything else aside.”

For example, when I started using the 4DX method, I set a big goal to publish five high-quality research papers in the next school year. This was a tough goal because it was more than I had published before, and there were real rewards for achieving it (like getting tenure). These two things really motivated me.

Discipline #2: Focus on the Actions That Matter

Once you have your important goal, you need to track your progress. In 4DX, there are two types of measurements: lag measures and lead measures.

Lag measures show the results you want to improve. For instance, if your goal is to make customers happier at your bakery, then your lag measure would be the customer satisfaction scores. The problem with lag measures is that they tell you how you did after it’s already too late to change anything: “By the time you get them, the performance that caused them is already over.”

Lead measures, on the other hand, track the actions you can take to achieve your goals. In the bakery example, a good lead measure could be the number of customers who get free samples. This is something you can control by giving out more samples. If you increase this number, your lag measures will likely improve too. In other words, lead measures help you focus on the actions that will lead to success.