You need to gather information for your project. Dewane calls the library “the hard drive of the machine.”

The next room is the office space. It has a regular conference room with a whiteboard and some cubicles with desks. Dewane says, “the office is for low-intensity activity.” This means it’s the place to do the easier tasks for your project. Dewane thinks there should be someone in the office to help people improve their work habits and be more efficient.

Now, let’s talk about the last room of the machine, which Dewane calls “deep work chambers.” Each chamber is about six by ten feet and has thick soundproof walls. Dewane wants these chambers to help you focus completely and work without interruptions. He suggests spending ninety minutes inside, then taking a ninety-minute break, and repeating this two or three times. After that, your brain will be ready to stop for the day.

Right now, the Eudaimonia Machine is just a set of architectural drawings, but Dewane is excited about its potential to help people do great work. He said, “[This design] is the most interesting piece of architecture I’ve ever produced.”

In a perfect world, where deep work is valued, we’d all have access to something like the Eudaimonia Machine. It might not be exactly like Dewane’s design, but it would be a work environment that helps us get the most out of our brains. Sadly, that’s not how things are now. Instead, we have distracting open offices where we can’t ignore our emails and meetings happen all the time. In this setting, people want quick replies to emails instead of the best work possible. As a reader of this book, you’re trying to find depth in a shallow world.

This rule—the first of four rules in Part 2 of this book—is meant to help with this problem. You might not have your own Eudaimonia Machine, but the strategies that follow will help you create similar effects in your busy work life. They’ll show you how to make deep work a regular and important part of your daily routine. The next rules will help you get the most out of this deep work habit by giving you tips on improving your focus and dealing with distractions.