You need enough of the right food to keep your energy up, and doing light exercise like walking can help clear your mind. Nietzsche once said, “Only ideas you get from walking are worth anything.” You should also think about your environment, like organizing your workspace so you don’t waste energy on distractions. To be successful, you have to support your deep work efforts. But this support should be organized so you don’t waste brainpower figuring out what you need at that moment.

These questions can help you start creating your deep work routine. Just remember, it might take some trial and error to find what works for you, so be ready to put in the effort. Trust me, it’s worth it! Once you find a routine that feels right, it can really make a difference. Doing deep work is important and shouldn’t be taken lightly. Having a unique ritual around it helps your mind focus and get into the zone where you can create meaningful things.

Make Bold Moves

In early winter 2007, J.K. Rowling was having a hard time finishing The Deathly Hallows, the last book in her Harry Potter series. The pressure was huge because this book had to tie up all the stories from the previous six books in a way that would please millions of fans. Rowling needed to concentrate deeply, but it was tough to do that in her home office in Edinburgh, Scotland. She recalled, “When I was finishing Deathly Hallows, there was a day when the window cleaner came, the kids were home, and the dogs were barking.” It was too distracting, so Rowling decided to take a big step to get her focus back: She checked into a fancy suite at the Balmoral Hotel in downtown Edinburgh. 

“I came to this hotel because it’s beautiful, but I didn’t plan to stay long,” she said. “But the first day of writing went well, so I kept coming back… and I ended up finishing the last Harry Potter book here.” Looking back, it makes sense that she stayed. The hotel was the perfect place for her to work. The Balmoral is one of Scotland’s most luxurious hotels, with a classic Victorian style and beautiful architecture.