Willpower is limited, so the more distractions you have, the harder it is to focus on something important. To get really good at deep work, you need to take back control of your time and attention from all the things trying to pull you away.

Before we start fighting these distractions, we need to understand the situation better. This leads to the second important point from Baratunde Thurston’s story: how people who work with information talk about the problem of online tools and attention. Thurston felt so overwhelmed by these tools that he thought the only solution was to quit the Internet for a while. This idea—that stopping all Internet use is the only way to avoid distractions from social media and news—has become a common topic lately.

The problem with this “all or nothing” way of thinking is that these choices are too simple to really help. Quitting the Internet is an extreme option and not realistic for most people (unless you’re writing an article about distractions). No one is really meant to copy what Thurston did—and because of that, many people just accept being distracted all the time as normal. Even though Thurston learned a lot while he took a break from the Internet, he quickly went back to being distracted once it was over. For example, six months after his break, he had already tweeted a lot in just a few hours.

This idea tries to get us out of this problem by offering a third choice: understanding that these tools aren’t all bad, and some are actually important for your success and happiness. But at the same time, you should be much more careful about which sites and apps get your time and attention (and personal info). Most people should use fewer of these tools. I’m not asking you to quit the Internet completely like Thurston did for 25 days in 2013. But I do want you to refuse the distracted, always-connected lifestyle that made him take that extreme step. There is a middle ground, and if you want to build a habit of deep work, you have to fight to find it.

The first step to finding this middle ground is to understand how most people decide which online tools to use right now.
