If someone asks me to speak at an event and I don’t want to do it, I might say I have other trips planned. I won’t give too many details because that might make them think of ways to fit their event into my schedule. Instead, I just say, “Sounds interesting, but I can’t make it because of schedule conflicts.” When I say no to things, I also try not to offer to help in a way that takes up just as much of my time. For example, I won’t say, “Sorry I can’t join your committee, but I can look at your proposals and give my thoughts.” It’s better to just say no and move on.

I also pay a lot of attention to how I manage my time. Since I have a limited amount of time each day, I can’t let big deadlines sneak up on me or waste my mornings on unimportant stuff. I need to make a good plan. Having a fixed schedule helps me stay organized. Without that pressure, I might get lazy with my habits.

To sum it up, both Nagpal and I can do well in school without overloading ourselves for two main reasons. First, we’re good at cutting out the less important stuff while keeping the important things. This helps us save time without losing the value of what we do. In fact, cutting out the less important tasks gives us more energy for the important ones, so we end up getting more done than if we had a busy schedule. Second, since we have limited time, we think more carefully about how we stay organized, which also helps us produce more compared to having longer but messier schedules.

The main point is that these benefits can apply to many jobs, not just teaching. Even if you’re not a professor, sticking to a fixed schedule can be really helpful. In many jobs, it can be hard to say no to small commitments that seem harmless, like grabbing coffee or jumping on a call. But when you commit to a fixed schedule, you start to see any extra obligation as a possible distraction. You begin to say no more often, and it becomes harder for people to get your time and attention. You’ll also start organizing your tasks more efficiently. Plus, it might make you rethink some of the work culture rules you thought were set in stone, like getting emails from your boss after hours.