about how some people can still find ways to focus deeply, even in busy jobs. 

There are two companies mentioned here, and the people in charge of them often get distracted easily. For example, Kerry Trainor, the CEO of Vimeo, says he can go a whole Saturday without checking his email too much. He might look at it, but he doesn’t always reply right away.

These top executives are paid really well and are super important to the economy right now. Jack Dorsey, the founder of Twitter, is another example of someone who does well without focusing deeply. But just because they can work this way doesn’t mean that deep thinking isn’t important. The distractions they face are part of their jobs. A good CEO needs to make quick decisions based on their experience and knowledge of the market. They get a lot of information every day through emails, meetings, and visits, and they need to act on that quickly. It wouldn’t make sense to ask a CEO to spend hours thinking about one problem when they could have smart team members analyze it and bring solutions to them.

This is important to remember because if you’re a high-level executive, you might not need the advice in this book. But it also means that you can’t assume that the way these executives work applies to everyone else. Just because Dorsey likes to be interrupted or Trainor checks his email a lot doesn’t mean you’ll be successful if you do the same. Their habits are specific to their jobs.

We should keep this in mind when we think about other jobs while reading this book. There are areas in the economy where deep thinking isn’t as valued. Besides executives, some salespeople and lobbyists also thrive on constant communication. There are even people who succeed while being distracted, even though focusing deeply could help them.

However, don’t rush to think that your job can’t involve deep work. Just because your current routine makes it hard to focus doesn’t mean you can’t do your job well with depth. In the next chapter, I’ll share examples of how some people manage to focus deeply, even in busy roles.