Isaacson was really organized: Whenever he had some free time, he would focus deeply and work hard on his book. This is how he managed to write a 900-page book while also spending most of his day becoming one of the best magazine writers in the country.

I call this way of working the journalist philosophy. It’s named after journalists like Walter Isaacson, who are trained to start writing quickly because they always have deadlines to meet.

This way of working isn’t for beginners. As I said before, switching your mind from easy tasks to really deep focus doesn’t come naturally. If you don’t practice, it can use up a lot of your willpower. You also need to believe in yourself— that what you’re doing matters and will turn out well. This kind of confidence usually comes from having some success already.

For example, Isaacson probably found it easier to switch into writing mode than a new writer because he was already respected. He knew he could write a big biography and that it was important for his career. This confidence helps you stay motivated.

I like the journalist philosophy because it’s how I fit deep work into my schedule. I’m not super strict about it (though I sometimes wish I could be like computer scientist Donald Knuth, who totally disconnects when working). I don’t do long deep work sessions like some people, and even though I like the idea of doing it every day, my schedule usually gets in the way.

Instead, like Isaacson, I take each week as it comes and try to get as much deep work done as I can. For example, when my kids were napping, I’d grab my laptop and work in the home office. If my wife visited her parents for a day, I’d use the time alone to write quietly. If a meeting was canceled or I had free time in the afternoon, I’d go to a library to write a few hundred words. And so on.

I’ll admit I don’t follow the journalist philosophy perfectly. I don’t decide all my deep work moments right when they happen. Instead, I plan when I’ll work deeply at the start of each week and then adjust my plan a little bit each day (see Rule #4 for more on how I schedule).
