When I was getting close to deadlines for my papers, the 4DX method helped me stay focused all year. I have to admit, it was a really tiring year, especially since I was also writing this book. But it turned out to be a great way to show how effective the 4DX method is. By summer 2014, I had nine papers accepted for publication, which was more than double what I had done in any previous year.

Be Lazy

In a 2012 article for a New York Times blog, writer and cartoonist Tim Kreider described himself as “the laziest ambitious person I know.” He didn’t like being super busy, but he found himself getting overwhelmed with work before writing his post. He said, “I started to become busy because of my job… every morning my inbox was full of emails asking me to do things I didn’t want to do or giving me problems to solve.”

His solution? He went to what he called an “undisclosed location,” a place without TV or Internet (to get online, he had to bike to the library). There, he could avoid all the little tasks that seemed harmless but piled up and distracted him from doing serious work. Kreider said, “I remembered about buttercups, stink bugs, and the stars. I read. And I’m finally getting some real writing done for the first time in months.”

It’s important to know that Kreider isn’t like Thoreau, who left society to make a big statement. He went to his undisclosed location for a simple reason: it helped him do his job better. Kreider explained, “Idleness isn’t just a break or a bad habit; it’s as important for the brain as vitamin D is for the body. Without it, we suffer mentally, just like if we had rickets… it’s actually necessary to get work done.”

When Kreider talks about getting work done, he’s not talking about easy tasks. Usually, the more time you spend on simple work, the more you get done. But as a writer and artist, Kreider cares about deep work—the serious stuff that really matters. He believes that to do this kind of work, you need time to relax and let your mind rest.