university,” she starts, then explains how she decided to ignore what everyone usually says and instead “intentionally… do specific things to keep myself happy.” This effort made Nagpal really enjoy her time before getting tenure.

Nagpal shares a few examples of what she did, but one method should sound familiar. At the beginning of her career, she tried to fit work into every free moment from seven a.m. to midnight. Since she has kids, her evenings were often super busy. It didn’t take long for her to realize this way of working wasn’t going to last, so she set a limit of fifty hours a week. Then, she figured out what rules and habits she needed to stick to this limit. Basically, she used a fixed schedule to be productive.

This strategy worked out well for her career because she got tenure on time and then became a full professor just three years later, which is really impressive. How did she do it? In her article, she says one of the main ways she respected her time limit was by setting strict limits on the less important tasks in her job. For example, she decided to only travel five times a year for any reason. Trips can create a lot of urgent but not very important tasks, like booking hotels or preparing talks. Five trips a year might still seem like a lot, but for someone in academia, it’s actually pretty light. To highlight this, a former colleague of hers, Matt Welsh, once wrote that new professors usually travel twelve to twenty-four times a year. (Think about all the extra tasks Nagpal avoided by skipping those ten to fifteen extra trips!) The travel limit is just one of the ways Nagpal managed her workday. She also limited the number of papers she would review each year. All her strategies focused on cutting down on the less important stuff while protecting her time for deep work, like original research, which really mattered for her career.

In my own case, I also stick to a similar approach to succeed with fixed scheduling. I’m very careful about using the most dangerous word in productivity: “yes.” It takes a lot to convince me to agree to something that leads to less important work. If someone asks me to get involved in university stuff that isn’t absolutely necessary, I might say something I learned from my department chair: “Talk to me after tenure.” Another tactic that works for me is being clear when I say no but not explaining too much why I’m saying no. The key is to avoid giving too many details about the reasons.