What About Jack Dorsey?

I’ve explained why deep work is important for skills that matter in today’s economy. But before we agree on this, we need to talk about a common question that comes up: What about Jack Dorsey?

Jack Dorsey helped create Twitter. After he stepped down as CEO, he started a payment company called Square. According to a Forbes article, “He is a disrupter on a massive scale and a repeat offender.” He also doesn’t spend much time doing deep work. Dorsey can’t focus for long periods because, at the time the Forbes article was written, he was managing both Twitter (where he was still chairman) and Square. This meant he had a busy schedule that made sure both companies ran smoothly, but it also meant Dorsey’s time and attention were really split up.

For example, Dorsey said he usually ends his day with thirty to forty sets of meeting notes that he goes through at night. In the little breaks between meetings, he likes to be available for spontaneous chats. “I do a lot of my work at stand-up tables, which anyone can come up to,” Dorsey said. “I get to hear all these conversations around the company.”

This way of working isn’t deep. To put it simply, Dorsey’s focus is probably all over the place as he jumps from one meeting to another, letting people interrupt him during the short breaks. But we can’t say Dorsey’s work is shallow either, because shallow work is low value and easy to copy. What Jack Dorsey does is super valuable and well-paid in our economy (at that time, he was one of the top one thousand richest people in the world, with over $1.1 billion).

Jack Dorsey is important to our discussion because he shows that some people can succeed without doing deep work. When I asked, “What About Jack Dorsey?,” I was really bringing up a bigger question: If deep work is so important, why do some distracted people still do well? To wrap up this chapter, I want to answer this question so it doesn’t keep bothering you as we explore more about deep work in the next sections.

First, we should remember that Jack Dorsey is a high-level executive of a large company.