•  
Re: Fwd: Study Hacks.  
This email was part of a chat where I was trying to find a time to meet up with someone I know who was visiting my city. It was tricky because his schedule was all over the place during his visit.  

•  
Re: just curious.  
This message was part of a conversation between a coworker and me about some annoying office politics stuff that happens a lot in academic jobs. These emails show how we often get distracted by small issues at work. Some topics are easy, like talking about an interesting article. Others can be a bit stressful, like discussing retirement savings (which usually ends with you feeling like you’re not doing enough). Some things are just frustrating, like trying to set up a meeting when everyone is busy. And then there are the negative things, like getting mad at scammers or worrying about office politics.  

Many people spend most of their workday dealing with these kinds of small issues. Even when they need to focus on something important, constantly checking emails keeps these minor problems on their minds. Gallagher points out that this is not a smart way to spend your day because it makes you feel stressed, annoyed, and frustrated. The world you see in your inbox isn’t a fun place to be.  

Even if your coworkers are nice and your conversations are positive, if you let yourself get distracted by these shallow issues, you might fall into a trap. Gallagher says, “Five years of reporting on attention have confirmed some home truths.” He explains that when you lose focus, your mind tends to think about what’s wrong in your life instead of what’s good. A workday filled with shallow concerns can be tiring and upsetting, even if those issues seem harmless or fun.  

The takeaway from this is clear. In work, especially knowledge work, spending more time on deeper tasks helps you use your brain better. This leads to more meaning and satisfaction in your work life. “After running my tough experiment [with cancer]… I have a plan for living the rest of my