It’s located just a few blocks from Edinburgh Castle, which was one of the places that inspired Rowling to create Hogwarts. 

Rowling chose to stay in a fancy hotel suite near the castle, and this shows a cool but smart way to get into deep work called the "grand gesture." The idea is simple: by changing your usual surroundings and maybe spending some money or putting in extra effort, you make the task feel more important. This makes it easier to focus and less likely to procrastinate.

For example, writing a chapter of a Harry Potter book is tough and takes a lot of brainpower no matter where you are. But if you’re paying over $1,000 a day to write in a nice hotel suite near a castle that looks like Hogwarts, it’s easier to get motivated than if you were in a distracting home office.

When you look at how other successful people work deeply, you see the grand gesture idea a lot. Bill Gates, when he was the CEO of Microsoft, would take "Think Weeks." During these weeks, he would leave his regular work and family stuff behind to go to a cabin with a bunch of papers and books. He wanted to think deeply about important issues for his company without distractions. It was during one of these weeks that he realized the Internet was going to be a big deal in the industry. There was nothing stopping him from thinking deeply in his office, but the change of scenery helped him focus better.

Alan Lightman, a physicist and writer, also uses grand gestures. Every summer, he goes to a small island in Maine to think and recharge. As of 2000, when he talked about it in an interview, the island didn’t even have Internet or phone service. He explained that it gives him about two and a half months to find some quiet time, which is hard to get in everyday life.

Not everyone can spend two months in Maine, but many writers, like Dan Pink and Michael Pollan, create their own special places to write. They often build writing cabins on their properties, which can be expensive and take a lot of effort. Pollan even wrote a book about building his cabin in the woods behind his old house in Connecticut. These cabins aren’t strictly necessary since all they really need is a laptop and a flat surface to work on.