I usually don’t send emails after 5:30 PM. But since email is such a big part of work now, there’s something surprising about this: I don’t work after 5:30 PM. 

I call this “fixed-schedule productivity.” I set a clear rule for myself that I won’t work past a certain time, and then I figure out how to be productive before that. I’ve been doing this happily for over five years, and it’s been really important for me to have a productive work life focused on deep work. In the following pages, I’ll try to convince you to try this method too.

Let me start by saying that, according to what people usually think, this method shouldn’t work in the academic world I’m in. Professors, especially new ones, are known for working super long hours, even at night and on weekends. For example, there’s a blog post by a young computer science professor I’ll call “Tom.” In this post from winter 2014, he shares a day when he spent twelve hours at his office. His day included five meetings and three hours of “administrative” tasks, which he describes as dealing with tons of emails, filling out forms, organizing notes, and planning future meetings. He thinks he only spent one and a half hours doing actual work that helps him make progress on his research. It’s no surprise that Tom feels like he has to work way past the normal workday. He even says, “I’ve already accepted that I’ll be working on weekends. Very few junior faculty can avoid this.”

But I have managed to avoid that. Even though I don’t work at night and rarely work on weekends, from when I started at Georgetown in fall 2011 to when I began writing this chapter in fall 2014, I published around twenty peer-reviewed articles. I also won two competitive grants, published one non-academic book, and almost finished writing another one (which you’re reading now). All of this while skipping the crazy schedules that people like Tom think are necessary.

So, what’s the reason behind this? We can find a good answer in an article from 2013 by a more experienced and successful academic named Radhika Nagpal, who is a professor of computer science at Harvard University. Nagpal starts her article by saying that a lot of the stress that new professors feel is actually caused by themselves. She mentions that there are many scary myths and data about being a tenure-track faculty at a research-focused university.