Chapter 3

Ric Furrer says, “I do all my work by hand.” You can find his artist statement and some info about him and his business online at http://www.doorcountyforgeworks.com.

In the PBS documentary “Secrets of the Viking Swords,” you hear things like “This part, the initial breakdown,” “You have to be very gentle,” “It’s ready,” and “To do it right, it is the most complicated thing.” This episode first aired on September 25, 2013. You can watch it or learn more at http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/ancient/secrets-viking-sword.html.

Crawford writes about “The satisfactions of manifesting oneself concretely” on page 15 of Shop Class as Soulcraft.

Ric Furrer also talks about “The world of information superhighways” in his artist statement online.

Winifred Gallagher explains in her book Rapt, on page 3, about a “Neurological Argument for Depth” with phrases like “not just cancer,” “This disease wanted to,” and “movies, walks.”

She also uses the phrase “Like fingers pointing to the moon” on page 2, and talks about “Who you are” on page 1.

On page 48, she mentions a “reset button,” and on page 49, she writes, “Rather than continuing to focus.”

Rapt gives a good summary of Barbara Fredrickson’s research on positivity on pages 48–49. For more details, you can check out Fredrickson’s 2009 book called Positivity.

Research by Laura Carstensen is also in Rapt on pages 50–51. You can find more about it in the article “At the Intersection of Emotion and Cognition: Aging and the Positivity Effect” by Carstensen and Mikels.

Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi talks about “concentration so intense” on page 71 of his book Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience.

Gallagher shares “Five years of reporting” on page 13 of Rapt, and says, “I’ll choose my targets with care” on page 14.

For more on the experience sampling method, you can read the original article by Larson and Csikszentmihalyi or check out a short summary on Wikipedia at http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Experience_sampling_method.

Csikszentmihalyi writes, “The best moments usually occur” on page 3 of Flow.

He also says, “Ironically, jobs are actually easier to enjoy” on page 162, and believes “jobs should be redesigned” on page 157.
