and this is the important part—try to stick to this budget. (The tips before and after this one will help you reach this goal.)

For most people with regular jobs that need some skills, the answer to the question will usually be around 30 to 50 percent. People don’t like the idea of spending most of their time on easy tasks, so 50 percent feels like a natural limit. But if it drops below 30 percent, your boss might worry that you’re just thinking big ideas but not actually getting things done.

Following this budget will probably mean you need to change how you work. You’ll likely have to say no to projects that seem pointless and cut down on the pointless stuff in your current projects. This budget might make you skip weekly status meetings and instead focus on results (“just tell me when you’ve made real progress; then we’ll talk”). You might also start spending more mornings without distractions or realize that you don’t need to reply quickly and in detail to every email you get.

These changes are good for making deep work a big part of what you do. On one hand, they don’t ask you to stop doing your basic tasks, which could cause problems and make people mad, since you’ll still spend a lot of time on those. On the other hand, they do make you set a clear limit on how many less important tasks you let sneak into your schedule. This limit gives you more time for important deep work regularly.

The reason you should start by talking to your boss is that this agreement shows you have support at work. If you work for someone else, this plan helps when you say no to a task or change a project to make it less shallow. You can explain that it’s necessary to meet your target mix of work types. As I mentioned in Chapter 2, one reason we end up doing too much shallow work is that we don’t see how much it affects our schedules. We usually look at tasks one by one, and each one seems okay at the moment. However, the tools from earlier in this rule help you see the bigger picture. You can confidently tell your boss, “This is the exact percentage of my time spent last week on shallow work,” and make them approve that ratio. When they see these numbers and the reality behind them (like how wasteful it is to pay a