In a Wall Street Journal article, business writer Laura Vanderkam gave some interesting examples. A survey by the National Sleep Foundation showed that Americans think they sleep about seven hours a night. But the American Time Use Survey, which actually measured sleep, found people sleep about 8.6 hours. Another study showed that people who said they worked 60 to 64 hours a week were really working closer to 44 hours. And those who claimed to work over 75 hours were actually working less than 55.

These examples show an important point: We often go through the day on autopilot, not really thinking about how we spend our time. This is a problem. It’s hard to stop wasting time if you don’t honestly look at how much time you spend on deep, important work versus shallow, less important tasks. You need to get into the habit of stopping before you act and asking, “What makes the most sense right now?” The plan below is designed to help you do this. It might seem extreme at first, but it will quickly become very useful if you want to make the most of your deep work: Schedule every minute of your day.

Here’s what I suggest: At the start of each workday, take a new page in a notebook just for this. On the left side of the page, write down every hour you normally work, skipping a line between each hour. Now, divide your work hours into blocks and decide what you will do during each block. For example, you could block off 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. for writing a client’s press release. Draw a box around those hours and write “press release” inside the box. Not every block has to be work tasks—you can block time for lunch or breaks too. To keep it simple, make each block at least 30 minutes long (one line on your page). This means you don’t have to list every tiny task separately. Instead, group similar small tasks into one block. You can draw a line from the block to the right side of the page and write out the small tasks you plan to do in that time.

When you finish scheduling, every minute of your day should be planned.

You’ve basically given every minute of your workday a job. As your day goes on, follow this schedule to guide you.

This is where most people will start having problems. Two things can (and probably will) go wrong with your schedule as the day goes on.
