Chapter 1

This chapter talks about Nate Silver and how he gets a lot of people to visit the New York Times website. There’s an article by Marc Tracy called “Nate Silver Is a One-Man Traffic Machine for the Times,” published on November 6, 2012, that explains this. You can read it online.

Nate Silver also made a deal with ESPN and ABC News. Mike Allen wrote about it in an article called “How ESPN and ABC Landed Nate Silver,” published on July 22, 2013. You can find that article online too.

Some people have questions about how Nate Silver does his work. Sean M. Davis wrote an article titled “Is Nate Silver’s Value at Risk?” on November 1, 2012, that discusses this. Also, Gary Marcus and Ernest Davis wrote “What Nate Silver Gets Wrong” in The New Yorker on January 25, 2013, which you can read online.

Information about David Heinemeier Hansson can be found on his website and in an article by Oliver Lindberg called “The Secrets Behind 37signals’ Success,” published on September 6, 2010. You can also check out the Wikipedia page for OAK Racing.

If you want to know more about John Doerr, there’s a profile on Forbes. His net worth is $3.3 billion, and you can find this information on his Forbes profile page from April 10, 2014.

There are quotes about how we are changing quickly in the economy and technology from a book called Race Against the Machine by Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee. They talk about how technology is moving fast and changing jobs.

Another quote asks if you are good at working with smart machines, from Tyler Cowen’s book Average Is Over. 

Sherwin Rosen wrote about how not every average performance leads to a great one in his article “The Economics of Superstars.”

Jaron Lanier also pointed out how Instagram shows differences in jobs and success.

Lastly, if you want to learn how to be successful like Nate Silver, there’s an article by Walter Hickey called “How to Become Nate Silver in 9 Simple Steps.” Nate Silver even did a Q&A on Reddit where people could ask him anything.