This brings up an interesting question: Why do so many companies, like the Boston Consulting Group, encourage a culture where everyone stays connected all the time, even though studies like Perlow’s show it can actually hurt employees’ happiness and how well they work? Plus, it probably doesn’t even help the company make more money. I think the answer comes from how people usually act at work.

There’s something called the Principle of Least Resistance. This means that at work, if we don’t get clear feedback about how our actions affect the company’s success, we usually choose to do what’s easiest right now.

So, why does this nonstop connected culture stick around? According to this idea, it’s because it’s easier. There are two big reasons for this. First, it’s easier to get quick answers when you need them. If you can ask a question and get an answer right away, your day feels simpler. If you couldn’t get quick replies, you’d have to plan more, stay organized, and be ready to wait for answers. That would make your workday harder, even if it might feel better or lead to better results in the long run. The rise of instant messaging at work is an example of this “quick answer” mindset taken to the extreme. If email replies within an hour make your day easier, then getting answers in under a minute through instant messages makes it even easier.

The second reason a connected culture makes life easier is that it lets people run their day by constantly checking and replying to emails or messages. This feels productive because you’re always responding right away, even if other important tasks get ignored. If email wasn’t the center of your workday, you’d have to plan your tasks more carefully, which is hard. For example, David Allen’s “Getting Things Done” method is a well-known way to manage tasks smartly, and it uses a 15-step process to decide what to work on next. But it’s much simpler to just jump into the latest email thread.

I’m using constant connectivity as an example here, but it’s just one of many work habits that don’t encourage deep focus and might actually hurt the company’s success. Still, these habits keep going because without clear results to guide us, most people just do what’s easiest.
