Try this experiment no more than once a week at first. This way, you can give your brain a chance to practice focusing hard while also letting it rest in between. Once you feel good about being able to trade focus for speed, you can do these “Roosevelt dashes” more often. Just remember to set deadlines that are challenging but still possible to meet. You should be able to finish just in time or really close, but it should take a lot of focus to do it.

The main reason for this method is simple. Deep work needs a level of focus that most people aren’t used to. Roosevelt dashes use fake deadlines to help you get better at focusing over time, kind of like training your brain. Another good thing about these dashes is that they don’t allow for distractions. You can’t get sidetracked and still meet your deadlines. So, every time you finish a dash, you might feel bored and want to look for something more interesting, but you have to resist that urge. The more you practice resisting distractions, the easier it gets.

After a few months of using this method, you’ll probably have a new understanding of what it means to focus. You’ll be able to concentrate harder than ever before. And if you’re anything like a young Roosevelt, you can use the extra free time you create to enjoy life more, like trying to impress the picky members of the Nuttall Ornithological Club.

Meditate Productively

During the two years I worked at MIT, my wife and I lived in a small but nice apartment on Pinckney Street in Beacon Hill. Even though I worked in Cambridge and lived in Boston, they were pretty close—only a mile apart across the Charles River. I wanted to stay fit during the cold New England winter, so I decided to walk to work as much as I could.

My routine was to walk to campus in the morning, crossing the Longfellow Bridge no matter the weather (which was annoying because the city was often slow to clear the sidewalks after snowstorms). Around lunchtime, I would change into my running clothes and run back home on a longer route along the riverbank.