He got accepted into a PhD program at one of the best universities in the country, where he now studies with a famous philosopher.

One reason for this change comes from research led by Henry Roediger, who runs the Memory Lab at the University of Washington in Saint Louis. In 2014, Roediger and his team went to the Extreme Memory Tournament in San Diego with lots of brain tests. They wanted to find out what makes these memory experts different from regular people.

“We found that one of the biggest differences between memory athletes and the rest of us is in a skill that isn’t about memory itself but about attention,” Roediger said in a New York Times blog post. This skill is called “attentional control,” and it means being able to focus on important information.

So, training your memory also helps you get better at concentrating. This focus can help you do any task that needs deep thinking. Daniel Kilov, for example, didn’t become a top student just because of his great memory; it was his effort to improve his memory that also helped him focus better and succeed in school.

The method you’ll learn here copies part of Kilov’s training, helping you improve your concentration too. Specifically, it teaches you a cool skill that most memory experts have: how to memorize a shuffled deck of cards.

The card memorization method I’ll show you comes from Ron White, a former USA Memory Champion and world record holder in this skill. The first thing Ron says is that memory pros never just repeat info over and over in their heads.

That way of remembering, popular with tired students, doesn’t really work because our brains aren’t made to quickly learn random facts. But we are really good at remembering pictures and scenes. Think about a recent event that stood out to you, like going to a conference or meeting a friend after a long time. Try to see the scene clearly in your mind. Most people can remember it really well, even though they didn’t try hard to remember it before. If you counted all the little details in that memory, you’d probably find a lot more than you expected.
