During my college years, I shared an office with a super smart professor who won a big award called the MacArthur “genius grant.” He got hired at MIT when he was really young, even before he could legally drink. It was pretty common to see him sitting in the common area, staring at a whiteboard with a group of other scholars quietly watching him. This could go on for hours. I’d go to lunch and come back, and he’d still be there, just staring. He’s not easy to get in touch with. He doesn’t use Twitter, and if he doesn’t know you, he probably won’t reply to your emails. Last year, he published sixteen papers.

This kind of intense focus was everywhere during my student years. So, I ended up getting really committed to deep work too. My friends and the publicists I’ve worked with on my books often get annoyed because I’ve never had a Facebook or Twitter account, or any social media except for a blog. I don’t browse the internet much and I mostly get my news from the Washington Post and NPR that I have delivered to my home. I’m also pretty hard to reach: my author website doesn’t have a personal email, and I didn’t get my first smartphone until 2012 when my pregnant wife told me I needed one before our son was born.

On the bright side, my focus on deep work has paid off. In the ten years after I graduated, I published four books, got a PhD, wrote a lot of academic papers, and became a professor at Georgetown University. I managed to do all this while usually finishing work by five or six in the evening during the week.

I can stick to this schedule because I’ve worked hard to cut out the shallow stuff in my life and make the most of my time. I plan my days around a few hours of focused work, and I handle the less important tasks in short bursts when I have to. It turns out that three to four hours a day, five days a week, of solid concentration can lead to a lot of great results.

My focus on deep work has also helped me in my personal life. Most of the time, I don’t use a computer after I get home from work until the next morning. The only exception is when I write blog posts after my kids go to bed. Being able to fully disconnect, instead of checking work emails or scrolling through social media, lets me be really present with my family.