Lewis is worried that making things more accessible will drain his energy and hurt his ability to write great stories. He says, “It’s crazy how much people are always available. A lot of the communication I have isn’t helpful; it makes things worse.” Packer shares his concern about distractions, calling Twitter “crack for media addicts.” He even describes Carr’s excitement about Twitter as “the scariest view of the future I’ve seen so far this decade.”

We don’t need to debate if these authors are right for choosing to stay away from Twitter and similar platforms, because their success shows they made good choices. Instead, we can see their decisions as a brave example of how to pick the right tools for their work. Many people, especially in creative jobs, often think any tool is good enough, so it’s nice to see a more thoughtful way to choose what services to use. However, these examples are rare, reminding us that making smart choices like this isn’t easy. Think about how complicated it was for Forrest Pritchard to decide on his hay baler; many people face similar tough decisions about their tools. The goal of this strategy is to help simplify the process of figuring out which tools really matter to you.

The first step is to figure out your main goals in both your work and personal life. If you have a family, your personal goals might include being a good parent and keeping your home organized. For work, your goals will depend on your job. For example, as a professor, I focus on being a good teacher and mentor for my students, as well as being a strong researcher. Your goals might be different, but it’s important to keep the list short and focused on what really matters. If your goal is too specific, like “to make a million dollars in sales” or “to publish six papers in a year,” it’s too detailed for this process. When you finish, you should have a few key goals for both your personal and work life.

After you have your goals, write down two or three important activities for each goal that help you achieve them. These activities should be clear enough that you can easily imagine doing them, but not so specific that they’re tied to just one outcome. For example, saying “do better research” is a good start.