Many people who work with information have a hard time showing that they are doing a good job. They want to prove they are valuable to their team, but they aren’t sure how to do that. Unlike someone who can show a stack of completed tasks or projects, they don’t have clear signs of their success. To fix this, a lot of them are looking back to the past when productivity was easier to see, like during the industrial age.

Back then, assembly lines were popular, and a guy named Frederic Taylor came up with the Efficiency Movement. He would use a stopwatch to see how fast workers could do their jobs. In his time, productivity was simple: it was all about how many items were made in a certain time. Nowadays, many knowledge workers are trying to go back to this old way of measuring productivity because they feel lost in their jobs. For example, David Allen talks about “cranking widgets” to describe getting work done. I believe that knowledge workers are becoming more focused on looking busy because they don’t have a better way to show their value. Let’s call this idea “Busyness as Proxy for Productivity.”

When there aren’t clear signs of what being productive means, many knowledge workers start doing a lot of visible tasks to show they are working hard. This explains why some behaviors that don’t really help can become popular. If you’re always sending and answering emails, going to lots of meetings, quickly responding to messages, or chatting with coworkers in an open office, it makes you look busy. If you think being busy shows you’re doing a good job, then these actions might feel really important to you.

This way of thinking isn’t totally unreasonable. For some people, their jobs really do rely on being busy. For example, in 2013, Yahoo’s new CEO Marissa Mayer told employees they couldn’t work from home anymore. She made this choice after looking at the server logs for the company’s remote access. Mayer was unhappy because she noticed that employees working from home weren’t as active.