Your inbox is now a place full of chances you can check out whenever you have free time—looking for the ones that make sense for you to reply to. But having a bunch of unread messages no longer feels like a must-do. You could ignore them all if you wanted, and nothing bad would happen. This feeling can actually make you feel free.

At first, I was worried that using a filter to block some senders would seem rude—like my time was more important than theirs—and that it might upset people. But that didn’t happen. Most people understand that you have the right to control who can message you because they want the same freedom. More than that, people like it when things are clear. Most don’t expect a reply if they don’t think they’ll get one (usually, people who have a small public profile, like authors, think more people care about their replies than really do).

Sometimes, changing these expectations can even make people appreciate your reply more. For example, an editor of an online site once invited me to write a guest post, thinking I probably wouldn’t answer because my filter suggested that. When I did reply, she was really happy. She said: When I emailed Cal to ask if he wanted to write for the site, I didn’t expect a reply since his filter didn’t show he wanted to guest blog. So, I wouldn’t have minded if he never answered. But when he did, it was a great surprise.

My sender filter is just one way to handle messages. Take Clay Herbert, a consultant who helps tech start-ups with crowd-funding. He gets tons of messages from people asking for advice. According to a Forbes.com article, “At some point, the number of people reaching out went past what Herbert could handle, so he made filters that put the responsibility on the person asking for help.” Even though he started for the same reason as me, his filters work differently. To contact him, you first have to check an FAQ to see if your question is already answered, because many of the messages he got before were asking things that were covered there. If you get past the FAQ, you have to fill out a survey so he can see if your question matches his expertise. For those who pass this, Herbert charges a small fee before talking to them. This fee isn’t to make money but to make sure people are serious about getting and using his advice.
