by people in their twenties who are often just figuring things out as they go. We quickly start to see these digital gadgets as signs that we’re moving forward into a new and exciting world.

This focus on the Internet is what technopoly looks like today. It’s important to understand this because it helps explain the question that started this section. The New York Times has a social media team and pushes its writers, like Alissa Rubin, to act in ways that grab attention, because in an Internet-focused world, this behavior isn’t really up for debate. The other option, which is to not go all-in on the Internet, is, as Postman would say, “invisible and therefore irrelevant.”

This invisibility explains the big reaction when Jonathan Franzen suggested that novelists shouldn’t tweet. People got upset not because they knew a lot about book marketing and disagreed with him, but because it shocked them that someone would say social media isn’t important. In an Internet-focused world, saying something like that feels like a big deal—like burning a flag, not just having a conversation.

Maybe the way this mindset is everywhere can be seen in something that happened to me recently on my way to work at Georgetown. While waiting for the light to change so I could cross Connecticut Avenue, I was behind a truck from a refrigerated shipping company. Refrigerated shipping is a tough and competitive business that needs a lot of skill to manage. It’s the ultimate old-school industry and is pretty much the opposite of the trendy tech start-ups that get all the attention today. But what caught my eye as I sat in traffic was a big sign on the back of the truck that said, “like us on Facebook.”

Deep work, which focuses on quality and skill, is at a big disadvantage in a technopoly because it values things that feel old-fashioned and not techy. Even worse, doing deep work often means you have to turn away from a lot of new and high-tech stuff. Deep work gets pushed aside for more distracting high-tech activities, like using social media for work, not because deep work is actually worse. If we had real data on how these activities affect success, our current technopoly would probably fall apart. But since we don’t have that clear data, we end up putting everything Internet-related on a pedestal, creating what Morozov calls an “uber-ideology.” In this kind of culture, we should