Benn had a plan, but he wasn’t thrilled about the idea of staying home for a long time. He needed to learn a tough skill quickly.

Benn faced the same issue that stops many people from moving up in their careers. Learning something complicated like computer programming needs a lot of focus on hard ideas. This kind of focus is what made Carl Jung go to the woods near Lake Zurich. In other words, it requires deep work. But most people today, including Benn, struggle to do this kind of work.

“I was always on the Internet checking my email; I couldn’t help it; it was like an addiction,” Benn said about the time before he quit his finance job. He shared a story about a project his boss gave him. “They wanted me to write a business plan,” he explained. Since he didn’t know how to write one, he thought he would read five different plans to figure it out. This was a smart move, but Benn had a problem: “I couldn’t stay focused.” He admitted that there were days when he spent almost all his time—“98 percent of my time”—just browsing the Web. The business plan project, which could have helped him stand out early in his career, got pushed aside.

By the time he quit, Benn knew he had trouble focusing, so when he decided to learn coding, he realized he also needed to train his mind to concentrate. His approach was extreme but worked. “I locked myself in a room with no computer: just textbooks, notecards, and a highlighter.” He would highlight the programming books, write down the ideas on notecards, and practice saying them out loud. At first, being away from electronics was tough, but Benn had no choice: he had to learn this stuff, so he made sure there were no distractions in that room. Over time, he got better at focusing and eventually spent five or more hours a day in the room, concentrating on learning this challenging new skill. “I probably read about eighteen books on the topic by the time I was done,” he remembers.

After two months of studying hard, Benn went to the very tough Dev Bootcamp, which was a hundred-hour-a-week crash course in Web application programming. (While looking into the program, Benn found a student with a PhD from Princeton who said Dev was “the hardest thing I’ve ever done in my life.”)