“undoubtedly true”: Jim Manzi wrote a careful and critical review of Piketty’s book called “Piketty’s Can Opener” in National Review on July 7, 2014. I first saw the Piketty quote in this review.

The Principle of Least Resistance shows how a team first resisted doing something because it risked their careers but ended up making a better product for the client. This idea and a summary of Leslie Perlow’s research on staying connected are in Perlow and Porter’s article “Making Time Off Predictable—and Required” in the Harvard Business Review from October 2009.

David Allen’s system for managing tasks is explained in his book Getting Things Done, published in 2001. You can also find his 15-step task flowchart in this book and online.

The h-index measures how productive and influential an academic is. It’s the biggest number x where a person has at least x papers with x or more citations. It shows both how many papers they wrote and how often others use them. You can’t get a high h-index just by writing many low-quality papers or a few popular ones. It usually goes up during a career, so many fields set h-index goals for different career stages.

Richard Feynman talked about doing real good physics work in a 1981 BBC TV interview at about 28 minutes in. The video was removed from YouTube because of copyright, but you can find transcripts of what he said online.

Matthew Crawford said “Managers themselves inhabit a bewildering psychic landscape” in his 2009 book Shop Class as Soulcraft.

“Cranking widgets” is a popular way to describe working through tasks, based on David Allen’s system. You can hear an interview with Allen about this on the 43 Folders podcast or read blog posts by Wayne Schuller and Leo Babauta explaining how to turn your work into stress-free productivity.

Marissa Mayer stopped Yahoo employees from working at home because she found they were not working as hard. Nicholas Carlson wrote about this in Business Insider in March 2013.

Alissa Rubin tweets at @Alissanyt. Even though there’s no clear proof she was forced to tweet, it’s likely because the New York Times has a social media team that trains its workers on how to use social media.
