Introduction  
In the Swiss area of St. Gallen, close to Lake Zurich, there’s a village called Bollingen. In 1922, a psychiatrist named Carl Jung decided to build a retreat there. He started with a simple two-story stone house that he named the Tower. After a trip to India, where he saw how people added meditation rooms to their homes, he made the place bigger and included a private office. Jung said about his office, “In my retiring room I am by myself. I keep the key with me all the time; no one else is allowed in there except with my permission.”  

In his book Daily Rituals, journalist Mason Currey looked into Jung’s life to share how he worked at the Tower. Jung would wake up at seven in the morning, and after a big breakfast, he would spend two hours writing without any distractions in his office. His afternoons were usually filled with meditation or long walks in the beautiful countryside around him. There was no electricity in the Tower, so when it got dark, he used oil lamps for light and a fireplace for heat. Jung would go to bed by ten p.m. He said, “The feeling of repose and renewal that I had in this tower was intense from the start.”  

Even though it might seem like Bollingen Tower was just a vacation spot, it was actually important for Jung’s work. When he bought the property in 1922, he couldn’t afford to take a vacation. Just a year earlier, in 1921, he published a key book called Psychological Types, which showed how his ideas were different from those of his old friend and mentor, Sigmund Freud. Disagreeing with Freud back then was a big deal. Jung needed to keep his mind sharp and write more articles and books to support his new ideas about psychology, which he called analytical psychology.  

Jung was busy with his lectures and counseling in Zurich, but he wanted more than just being busy. He wanted to change how people understood the unconscious mind, and that needed deep thinking, which was hard to do in the busy city. So, he went to Bollingen not to escape his work, but to help him grow in it.