This study shows that spending time in nature can help you focus better. This idea, called attention restoration theory (ART), was first suggested in the 1980s by two psychologists from the University of Michigan, Rachel Kaplan and Stephen Kaplan. They believed that our ability to pay attention can get tired out. When you need to concentrate, you use what ART calls directed attention. This ability isn’t unlimited; if you use it all up, it becomes hard to focus.

In a 2008 study, researchers found that walking in busy city streets makes you use a lot of directed attention. You have to pay close attention to things like when to cross the street safely or how to get around groups of tourists blocking the sidewalk. After just fifty minutes of this kind of focus, people felt mentally drained.

On the other hand, walking in nature gives you a break. Marc Berman, the lead author of the study, says nature has “inherently fascinating stimuli,” like beautiful sunsets. These things don’t demand much attention, which lets your mind relax and recharge. When you’re in nature, you don’t have to think hard about where to go, and you can enjoy interesting sights without stressing out. After fifty minutes of this kind of relaxation, people found they could concentrate better.

Some might say that being outside and watching a sunset just makes people feel good, and that’s why they do better on tasks. But the researchers tested this idea in the freezing winter of Ann Arbor. Even when it was really cold and not pleasant, people still improved their focus after walking outside.

What’s important to remember is that ART isn’t just about nature. The main idea is that you can improve your ability to focus if you take a break from trying hard to concentrate. Nature helps with this, but so do other relaxing activities that let your mind wander without needing to focus too much. Things like chatting with a friend, listening to music while cooking, playing games with your kids, or going for a run can also help recharge your attention. These are the kinds of activities you might enjoy in the evening when you decide to stop working.