This is not unusual behavior anymore; it’s actually what’s normal now. When the writer Jonathan Franzen wrote an article for the Guardian saying Twitter was a “forceful change” in the world of books, many people made fun of him and said he didn’t understand what’s going on. The online magazine Slate called Franzen’s complaints a “lonely fight against the Internet,” and another writer, Jennifer Weiner, said in The New Republic that “Franzen is all alone, making rules that only apply to himself.” The hashtag #JonathanFranzenhates became popular and was used to mock him.

I talk about these three business trends because they show a strange problem. In the last chapter, I said that focusing deeply on work is more important than ever in our changing economy. If that’s true, you would think both people and companies would want to encourage this skill to get the best work done. But the examples show this isn’t happening. Instead, many other things are seen as more important than deep focus at work, like random teamwork, quick messaging, and being very active on social media.

It’s bad enough that deep focus is not the top priority, but even worse, many of these trends make it harder to concentrate deeply. Open offices, for example, might help people work together more, but they also cause a lot of distractions. Experiments done for a British TV show called The Secret Life of Office Buildings found that when you just start working and a phone rings nearby, it breaks your focus. The scientist who did the study said, “Even if you don’t notice it, your brain still reacts to distractions.” The same problem happens with instant messaging. Emails only distract you when you check them, but instant messages are always on, making interruptions happen more often. Gloria Mark, a professor who studies attention, watched workers in real offices and found that even short interruptions make tasks take a lot longer to finish. She said the workers felt these interruptions were very harmful.

Making people who create content use social media also hurts their ability to focus deeply. Serious journalists, for example, need to spend time doing serious work—digging into complicated information, finding connections, and writing clearly. Asking them to stop this deep work all day to join quick, silly online chats doesn’t make sense and is at best annoying and at worst really distracting.
