Things can definitely go wrong with your schedule as the day goes on. First, your time estimates might be off. For example, you might think writing a press release will take two hours, but it actually takes two and a half hours. Second, you’ll probably get interrupted and new tasks will pop up unexpectedly, which can mess up your plans.

That’s okay! If your schedule gets messed up, take a few minutes when you can to make a new plan for the rest of the day. You can start fresh on a new page, erase what you had, or do what I do: cross out the old blocks for the day and create new ones next to them (I make my blocks skinny so I can fit several changes). Some days, you might have to rewrite your schedule a bunch of times. Don’t worry if that happens. The goal isn’t to stick to the schedule no matter what; it’s to keep thinking about how you want to use your time, even if you have to change your plans a lot throughout the day.

If you find yourself changing your schedule too often, there are a few tips to help you stay on track. First, realize that you’re probably going to underestimate how much time you need for things at first. When people start scheduling, they often think everything will go perfectly, which isn’t realistic. Over time, try to get better at guessing how long tasks will actually take.

The second tip is to use overflow blocks. If you’re not sure how long something will take, schedule the time you think it will need, then add an extra block for overflow. If you need more time for the first task, you can use this extra block for that. If you finish on time, have something else planned for that block, like catching up on emails. For example, if you plan two hours for writing a press release, you can add an extra hour block to keep working on it if you need it, or use it for something else if you finish early.

The third tip is to use plenty of task blocks. Make them longer than you think you’ll need for the tasks you plan in the morning. A lot of unexpected things can happen during the day, so having regular blocks of time to deal with surprises can help keep you organized.