I don’t really have a strong opinion on this big debate about life and work. Instead, I’m more interested in something practical: the way our work culture is changing is creating a huge chance for people who see the value in going deeper instead of just skimming the surface. This chance was taken by a young guy named Jason Benn from Virginia, who was feeling bored in his job.

There are a lot of ways to find out that you’re not really needed in today’s job market. For Jason, it hit him hard when he figured out that most of his tasks as a financial consultant could be done by a simple Excel script. The company he worked for made reports for banks that were involved in complicated deals. He joked that the work was as exciting as it sounds. Creating these reports took hours of messing around with data in Excel. When Jason started, he spent up to six hours on each report, while the faster workers could do it in about half that time. This frustrated him.

Jason thought the whole process was slow and outdated. He knew that Excel had a feature called macros that could help automate tasks. After reading some articles, he created a new worksheet with macros that turned the six-hour task into just a click of a button. What used to take him a whole day could now be done in less than an hour.

Jason is pretty smart. He graduated from a top college, the University of Virginia, with a degree in economics and had big dreams for his career. But he quickly realized that as long as his main skills could be summed up in an Excel macro, he wouldn’t get far. So, he decided he needed to make himself more valuable. After doing some research, he told his family he would quit his job and become a computer programmer. But there was a problem: Jason didn’t know how to code at all.

As someone who knows about computers, I can tell you that programming is tough. Most new developers spend four years in college learning how to do it, and even then, getting the best jobs is really competitive. Jason didn’t have that kind of time. After his big realization about Excel, he left his job at the financial firm and moved back home to get ready for his next step. His parents were happy he was taking action.