Chapter 3  
“I do all my work by hand” comes from Ric Furrer’s artist statement, which you can find online, along with some info about him and his business: http://www.doorcountyforgeworks.com.  

“This part, the initial breakdown” means you have to be careful. “It’s ready” shows that something is prepared. “To do it right, it is the most complicated thing” is from the PBS documentary “Secrets of the Viking Swords,” which aired on September 25, 2013. For more info on this episode and where to watch it online, check out: http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/ancient/secrets-viking-sword.html.  

“The satisfactions of manifesting oneself concretely” is from page 15 of Crawford’s book, Shop Class as Soulcraft.  

“The world of information superhighways” is another quote from Ric Furrer’s artist statement: http://www.doorcountyforgeworks.com.  

A Neurological Argument for Depth  
“Not just cancer,” “This disease wanted to,” and “movies, walks” are from page 3 of Winifred Gallagher’s book, Rapt: Attention and the Focused Life. New York, Penguin, 2009.  

“Like fingers pointing to the moon” is also from Gallagher. “Who you are” is from page 1 of the same book. “Reset button” is on page 48, and “Rather than continuing to focus” is on page 49.  

Rapt gives a good summary of Barbara Fredrickson’s research on positivity (see pages 48–49), but you can find more details in her 2009 book, Positivity: Groundbreaking Research Reveals How to Embrace the Hidden Strength of Positive Emotions, Overcome Negativity, and Thrive. New York: Crown Archetype, 2009.  

Laura Carstensen’s research is mentioned in Rapt (see pages 50–51). For more information, check out this article: Carstensen, Laura L., and Joseph A. Mikels. “At the Intersection of Emotion and Cognition: Aging and the Positivity Effect.” Current Directions in Psychological Science 14.3 (2005): 117–121.  

“Concentration so intense” is from page 71 of Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi’s book, Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience. New York: Harper & Row Publishers, 1990.  

“Five years of reporting” is from page 13 of Gallagher’s Rapt. “I’ll choose my targets with care” is on page 14.  

A Psychological Argument for Depth  
If you want to know more about the experience sampling method, read the original article here: Larson, Reed, and Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi. “The Experience Sampling Method.” New Directions for Methodology of Social & Behavioral Science. 15 (1983): 41-56.  

You can also find a short summary of this technique on Wikipedia: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Experience_sampling_method.  

“The best moments usually occur” is from page 3 of Csikszentmihalyi’s Flow. “Ironically, jobs are actually easier to enjoy” is on page 162. “Jobs should be redesigned” is from page 157.