abandon them—but not everyone. You might think it’s unfair that only a few activities get to decide how you use certain tools. For example, Facebook has a lot of good things for your social life; why would you stop using it just because it doesn’t help with the few activities you think are most important? What’s important to get here is that cutting down on priorities isn’t random. It’s based on an idea that shows up in different areas, like business profits, social fairness, and even computer crashes.

The Law of the Vital Few says that in many situations, 80 percent of the results come from just 20 percent of the causes. For instance, 80 percent of a business’s money might come from only 20 percent of its customers, or 80 percent of a country’s wealth is owned by the richest 20 percent of people. Also, 80 percent of computer crashes can be traced back to just 20 percent of the bugs. There’s a math reason behind this (the 80/20 rule is common when looking at real-world data), but it’s most useful as a reminder that not all contributions to an outcome are equal.

Now, let’s say this rule applies to your important life goals. Many activities can help you reach these goals. The Law of the Vital Few tells us that the most important 20 percent of these activities give you most of the benefits. If you can think of about ten to fifteen helpful activities for each goal, this law suggests you should focus on the top two or three activities that really make a difference in whether you succeed.

Even if you agree with this, you might still think you shouldn’t ignore the other 80 percent of helpful activities. It’s true that these less important activities don’t help as much as your top ones, but they can still be useful, so why not keep them around? As long as you pay attention to the more important activities, it seems okay to also include some of the less important ones.

But this way of thinking misses a key point: all activities, no matter how important, use up your limited time and attention. If you spend time on less important activities, you might not have enough left for the ones that really matter.