Thousands of people were watching her. In the crowded stands, everyone was trying to get a better look. People were whispering and making noises when Mariam was helped down from the truck. Mariam thought about how people were probably shaking their heads when the loudspeaker said what she had done. But she didn’t look up to see if they were angry or feeling sorry for her. She shut out all of them.

That morning, she was scared she would mess up, that she would cry or beg for mercy. She worried she might scream, throw up, or even wet herself. She was afraid her body would betray her in her last moments. But when she got down from the truck, her legs didn’t give out. Her arms didn’t flap around. No one had to drag her. When she started to feel weak, she thought about Zalmai, whose life would be full of sadness now because his dad was gone. Thinking of him made her steady her steps and keep walking.

A man with a gun came up and told her to walk to the southern goalpost. Mariam felt the crowd getting more excited. She didn’t look up. She kept her eyes on the ground, watching her shadow and the shadow of the man behind her.

Even though there were some good times, Mariam knew life had mostly been hard to her. But as she walked the last few steps, she wished she had more time. She wished she could see Laila again, hear her laugh, and sit with her drinking tea under the stars. She was sad she would never see Aziza grow up, become a beautiful woman, have a wedding with henna on her hands, or have children to play with. She really wanted to be old and play with Aziza’s kids.

When she reached the goalpost, the man told her to stop. She did. Through the fabric of her burqa, she saw his shadow raise his gun.

Mariam wished for so much in those last moments. But as she closed her eyes, she didn’t feel regret. Instead, she felt a deep peace. She thought about how she was born as the unwanted child of a poor village woman, a “harami,” an accident no one wanted. But now she was leaving the world as someone who had loved and been loved back. She was a friend, a protector, a mother. Someone important at last. No, dying like this wasn’t so bad, Mariam thought. This was a fair ending to a life that started unfairly.

Her last thoughts were a few words from the Koran, which she whispered quietly.

He has created the heavens and the earth with the truth; He makes the night cover the day and makes the day overtake the night, and He has made the sun and the moon obey Him; each one runs its course; surely He is Mighty and Great in Forgiveness.
