“It was either your daughter or the moths.”  
“Where did you learn to clean fish like that?”  
“When I was a little girl, I lived by a stream. I used to catch my own fish.”  
“I’ve never fished.”  
“Not much to it. It’s mostly waiting.”  

Laila watched her cut the gutted trout into thirds.  
“Did you sew the clothes yourself?” Mariam nodded.  

“When?” Mariam rinsed pieces of fish in a bowl of water.  
“When I was pregnant the first time. Or maybe the second time. Eighteen, nineteen years ago. Long time, anyway. Like I said, I never had any use for them.”  
“You’re a really good khayai. Maybe you can teach me.”  

Mariam put the rinsed fish into a clean bowl. Drops of water dripped from her fingers. She looked up at Laila like she was seeing her for the first time.  

“The other night, when he… Nobody’s ever stood up for me before,” she said.  

Laila looked at Mariam’s tired face, the sagging eyelids, the deep lines around her mouth. She saw these things like she was looking at someone for the first time. And for the first time, she didn’t see an enemy’s face but a face full of pain and things left unsaid, a life that had been accepted even if it was hard. If she stayed, would this be her face twenty years from now?  

“I couldn’t let him,” Laila said. “I wasn’t raised in a home where people did things like that.”  
“This is your home now. You should get used to it.”  
“No, I won’t.”  

“He’ll turn on you too, you know,” Mariam said, drying her hands on a rag. “Soon enough. And you gave him a daughter. So, your mistake is even worse than mine.”  

Laila stood up. “I know it’s cold outside, but what do you say we sinners have a cup of chai in the yard?”  
Mariam looked surprised. “I can’t. I still have to cut and wash the beans.”  
“I’ll help you do it in the morning.”  
“And I have to clean up here.”  
“We’ll do it together. If I’m not wrong, there’s some halwa left. It’s really good with chat.”  

Mariam put the rag on the counter. Laila noticed she seemed nervous, tugging at her sleeves, fixing her hijab, pushing back a curl of hair.  

“The Chinese say it’s better to miss food for three days than tea for one.”  
Mariam gave a small smile. “That’s a good saying.”  
“It is.”  
“But I can’t stay long.”  
“One cup.”  

They sat on folding chairs outside and ate halwa with their fingers from a shared bowl.  

They had a second cup, and when Laila asked if Mariam wanted a third, she said yes.
