Tariq was different from some other boys whose hair hid weird-shaped heads with bumps. Tariq’s head was smooth and perfectly shaped.

When he looked up, Laila noticed his cheeks and forehead were sunburned. “Why were you so late?” she asked. “My uncle was sick. Come on, let’s go inside.” He took her down the hallway to the family room. Laila loved everything about the house.

There was an old, worn rug on the floor, a patchwork quilt on the couch, and the usual mess of Tariq’s life: his mom’s fabric, sewing needles stuck in spools, old magazines, and an accordion case waiting to be opened.

“Who is it?” his mom called from the kitchen.

“Laila,” Tariq answered. He pulled out a chair for her. The family room was bright and had two windows that looked out into the yard. On the window sill, there were empty jars where Tariq’s mom pickled eggplant and made carrot jam.

“Our aroos, our daughter-in-law,” his dad said as he came into the room. He was a thin, white-haired man in his early sixties. He had gaps between his front teeth and squinty eyes from working outside a lot. He opened his arms, and Laila went into a hug, smelling his nice, familiar sawdust scent.

They kissed each other on the cheek three times.

“If you keep calling her that, she might stop coming,” Tariq’s mom said as she walked by with a tray. The tray had a big bowl, a spoon, and four small bowls. She put it on the table. “Don’t mind your dad.” She gently held Laila’s face. “It’s so nice to see you, my dear. Sit down. I brought some water-soaked fruit.” 

The table was big and made of light, unfinished wood that Tariq’s dad built, along with the chairs. It was covered with a green vinyl tablecloth with little purple crescent moons and stars. Most of the living room wall had pictures of Tariq at different ages. In some old ones, he still had both legs.

“I heard your brother was sick,” Laila said to Tariq’s dad as she took a spoonful of soaked raisins, pistachios, and apricots.

He was lighting a cigarette. “Yes, but he’s fine now, thank God,” he said. “He had a heart attack.”
