Laila remembered a time long ago at the house, on one of Mammy’s good days. The women were sitting in the garden, eating fresh mulberries that Wajma had picked from her yard. The mulberries were white, pink, and some were dark purple, like the tiny veins on Wajma’s nose.

“You heard how his son died?” Wajma asked, stuffing more mulberries into her mouth.

“He drowned, right?” Nila, Giti’s mom, said. “At Ghargha Lake, wasn’t it?” “But did you know,” Wajma said, raising a finger and making them wait, “that Rasheed used to drink sharab back then? I heard he was crying drunk that day. Crying drunk, really. It was midmorning. By noon, he was passed out on a lounge chair. You could have fired a cannon next to his ear and he wouldn’t have noticed.” Laila remembered Wajma covering her mouth and burping.

“You can guess the rest. The boy went into the water without anyone noticing. They found him later, floating face down. People tried to help—some tried to wake up the boy, others tried to wake the father. Someone tried mouth-to-mouth, but it was no use. The boy was gone.” Wajma raised her finger and her voice shook with seriousness. “This is why the Holy Koran forbids sharab. Because the sober always have to pay for the mistakes of the drunk. That’s how it is.” 

This story stayed in Laila’s mind after she told Rasheed the news about the baby. He quickly got on his bike, rode to a mosque, and prayed for a boy.

That night, during dinner, Laila watched Mariam push a piece of meat around her plate. Laila was there when Rasheed told Mariam the news in a loud, dramatic voice. Laila had never seen him so happily cruel. Mariam’s eyelashes fluttered when she heard it. Her face turned red. She sat quietly, looking sad.

Afterward, Rasheed went upstairs to listen to the radio, and Laila helped Mariam clear the table.

“I can’t imagine what you are now,” Mariam said, picking at rice and bread crumbs, “if you were a Benz before.” Laila tried to joke. “A train? Maybe a big jumbo jet.” Mariam sat up straight. “I hope you don’t think this means you don’t have to do chores.” Laila opened her mouth but stopped. She reminded herself that Mariam was the only innocent one in all this—Mariam and the baby.

Later, in bed, Laila started crying.

“What’s wrong?” Rasheed asked, lifting her chin. “Are you sick? Is it about the baby? Is something wrong with the baby?”
