To Jalil and his wives, I was like a weed. A mugwort. You too. And you weren’t even born yet.

“What’s a mugwort?” Mariam asked.

“A weed,” Nana said. “Something you pull out and throw away.” Mariam felt upset inside. Jalil didn’t treat her like a weed. He never had. But Mariam thought it was better not to say anything.

“Unlike weeds, I had to be replanted, you know, given food and water. Because of you.

That was the deal Jalil made with his family.” Nana said she refused to live in Herat.

“For what? To watch him drive his other wives around town all day?” She said she wouldn’t live in her father’s empty house either, in the village of Gul Daman, which was on a steep hill two kilometers north of Herat. She wanted to live somewhere far away, where neighbors wouldn’t stare at her belly, point at her, laugh, or, worse, be fake nice to her.

“And, believe me,” Nana said, “it was a relief to your father having me out of sight. It suited him just fine.” It was Muhsin, Jalil’s oldest son from his first wife, Khadija, who suggested the clearing. It was on the edge of Gul Daman. To get there, you took a bumpy, uphill dirt road that split off the main road between Herat and Gul Daman. The road had knee-high grass and little white and bright yellow flowers on both sides. It twisted uphill and led to a flat field with tall poplar and cottonwood trees and wild bushes. From there, you could see the rusty blades of Gul Daman’s windmill on the left and all of Herat spread out on the right. The path ended at a wide stream full of trout, which came down from the Safid-koh mountains around Gul Daman. Two hundred yards upstream, near the mountains, there was a circle of weeping willow trees. In the middle, under the willows, was the clearing.

Jalil went there to check it out. When he came back, Nana said, he sounded like a guard bragging about the clean walls and shiny floors of his prison.

“And so, your father built us this dump.”  

Nana had almost married once, when she was fifteen. The boy was from Shindand, a young parakeet seller. Mariam knew the story from Nana herself, and even though Nana acted like it didn’t matter, Mariam could see in her eyes that she had been happy.
