He has a home and a job. That’s all that really matters, right? And Kabul is a cool and exciting city. You might not get another chance this good." Mariam looked at the wives.

"I’ll live with Mullah Faizullah," she said. "He’ll take me in. I know he will." "That’s no good," Khadija said. "He’s old and so…" She looked for the right words, and Mariam knew she meant, He is too close. She understood what they were trying to do. You might not get another chance this good, and neither would they. They were ashamed because of how she was born, and this was their chance to get rid of the last part of their husband’s big mistake. She was being sent away because she was a reminder of their shame.

"He’s so old and weak," Khadija finally said. "What will you do when he’s gone? You’d be a burden to his family." Just like you are to us now. Mariam almost saw the words they didn’t say, like cold breath in the air.

Mariam thought about Kabul, a big, strange, crowded city that Jalil had told her was about six hundred and fifty kilometers east of Herat. Six hundred and fifty kilometers. The farthest she’d ever been from her little home was the two-kilometer walk to Jalil’s house. She imagined living there, in Kabul, so far away, in a stranger’s home where she would have to deal with his moods and demands. She would have to clean up after Rasheed, cook for him, and wash his clothes. There would be other chores too. Nana had told her what husbands did to their wives. Thinking about those things, which seemed painful and wrong, scared her and made her sweat.

She looked at Jalil again. "Tell them. Tell them you won’t let this happen." "Actually, your father already said yes to Rasheed," Afsoon said. "Rasheed is here in Herat; he came all the way from Kabul. The wedding will be tomorrow morning, and then there’s a bus leaving for Kabul at noon." "Tell them!" Mariam shouted. The women got quiet. Mariam felt them watching Jalil too. Waiting. The room grew silent. Jalil kept twisting his wedding ring, looking hurt and helpless. The clock inside the cabinet kept ticking.

"Jalil jo?" one of the women said finally.

Jalil’s eyes slowly lifted, met Mariam’s, stayed for a moment, then looked down again. He opened his mouth, but only a quiet, painful groan came out.
