To the south, she could see the bread factory called Silo. It was old and empty, its pale yellow walls full of big holes from all the fighting. Farther south, she could see the broken ruins of Darulaman Palace, where, many years ago, Rasheed had taken her for a picnic. That day felt like it belonged to a time that was not hers anymore.

Mariam focused on these places, these landmarks. She was afraid she might get scared if she thought about other things.

Every few minutes, jeeps and taxis pulled up to the hotel entrance. Doormen rushed to greet the men who got out. They were all armed, had beards, wore turbans, and walked with a confident, threatening attitude. Mariam heard bits of their talking as they went inside the hotel. She heard Pashto, Farsi, Urdu, and Arabic.

“Meet our real masters,” Rasheed said in a low voice. “Pakistani and Arab Islamists. The Taliban are just their puppets. These are the big bosses, and Afghanistan is their playground.” Rasheed said he had heard rumors that the Taliban were letting these people set up secret camps all over the country, where young men were being trained to become suicide bombers and fighters.

“What’s taking him so long?” Mariam asked.

Rasheed spat and kicked some dirt.

An hour later, Mariam and Rasheed were inside, following the doorman. Their heels clicked on the tiled floor as they walked through the cool lobby. Mariam saw two men sitting on leather chairs with rifles and a coffee table between them. They were drinking black tea and eating jelabi, which are sweet rings covered with syrup and powdered sugar. She thought about Aziza, who loved jelabi, and looked away.

The doorman took them outside to a balcony. He pulled a small black cordless phone and a piece of paper with a number on it from his pocket. He told Rasheed it was his boss’s satellite phone.

“I got you five minutes,” he said. “No more.”

“Tashakor,” Rasheed said. “I won’t forget this.” The doorman nodded and walked away. Rasheed dialed. He gave the phone to Mariam.

As Mariam listened to the crackling ringing, her mind drifted. She thought about the last time she saw Jalil, thirteen years ago, in the spring of 1987. He had stood on the street outside her house, leaning on a cane, next to the blue Benz with the Herat license plates and the white stripe across the roof, hood, and trunk. He stood there for hours, waiting for her, calling her name sometimes, just like she had once called his name outside his house.
