She pictured its tiny body washed by strangers, wrapped in a tawny shroud, lowered into a hole dug in a patch of windswept land under the disappointed gaze of vultures.
 
 How could she run now?
 
 Laila took grim inventory of the people in her life. Ahmad and Noor, dead. Hasina, gone.
 
 Giti, dead. Mammy, dead. Babi, dead. Now Tariq… But, miraculously, something of her former life remained, her last link to the person that she had been before she had become so utterly alone. A part of Tariq still alive inside her, sprouting tiny arms, growing translucent hands.
 
 How could she jeopardize the only thing she had left of him, of her old life?
 
 She made her decision quickly. Six weeks had passed since her time with Tariq. Any longer and Rasheed would grow suspicious.
 
 She knew that what she was doing was dishonorable. Dishonorable, disingenuous, and shameful. And spectacularly unfair to Mariam. But even though the baby inside her was no bigger than a mulberry, Laila already saw the sacrifices a mother had to make. Virtue was only the first.
 
 She put a hand on her belly. Closed her eyes.
 
 * * * Laila would remember the muted ceremony in bits and fragments. The cream colored stripes of Rasheed's suit. The sharp smell of his hair spray. The small shaving nick just above his Adam's apple. The rough pads of his tobacco stained fingers when he slid the ring on her. The pen. It’s not working. The search for a new pen. The contract. The signing, his sure handed, hers quavering. The prayers. Noticing, in the mirror, that Rasheed had trimmed his eyebrows.
 
 And, somewhere in the room, Mariam watching. The air choking with her disapproval.
 
 Laila could not bring herself to meet the older woman's gaze.
 
 * * * Lying beneath his cold sheets that night, she watched him pull the curtains shut. She was shaking even before his fingers worked her shirt buttons, tugged at the drawstring of her trousers. He was agitated. His fingers fumbled endlessly with his own shirt, with undoing his belt. Laila had a full view of his sagging breasts, his protruding belly button, the small blue vein in the center of it, the tufts of thick white hair on his chest, his shoulders, and upper arms. She felt his eyes crawling all over her.
 
 "God help me, I think I love you," he said Through chattering teeth, she asked him to turn out the lights.
 
 Later, when she was sure that he was asleep, Laila quietly reached beneath the mattress for the knife she had hidden there earlier. With it, she punctured the pad of her index finger.
 
 Then she lifted the blanket and let her finger bleed on the sheets where they had lain together.
 
 135 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS 31.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
