"We put the books away and pretend to knit." One day, when Laila was visiting Aziza, she saw a middle-aged woman with her burqa pushed back. The woman was talking with three boys and a girl. Laila recognized her sharp face and thick eyebrows, but not the sunken mouth and gray hair. She remembered the shawls, black skirts, and the strict voice. This woman used to wear her black hair in a bun, so you could see the dark hair on the back of her neck. Laila remembered how this woman once told the female students not to cover themselves. She said men and women were equal and women didn’t need to cover if men didn’t.

At one point, Khala Rangmaal looked up and caught Laila’s eyes. But Laila saw no sign that her old teacher recognized her.

***

“They’re cracks in the earth’s surface," Aziza said. "They’re called faults." It was a warm afternoon on a Friday in June 2001. Laila, Zalmai, Mariam, and Aziza were sitting in the back yard of the orphanage. Rasheed had finally agreed to come with them, but he was waiting down the street by the bus stop.

Kids without shoes ran around them. A flat soccer ball was kicked and chased slowly.

"And on both sides of the faults, there are big sheets of rock that make up the earth’s surface," Aziza explained.

Someone had braided Aziza’s hair and pinned it neatly on top of her head. Laila was jealous of the person who got to sit behind her daughter, flipping her hair and telling her to stay still.

Aziza showed how the plates moved by opening her hands, palms up, and rubbing them together. Zalmai watched carefully.

“Tectonic plates, right?” “Tectonic,” Laila said. Talking hurt. Her jaw was sore, her back and neck hurt. Her lip was swollen, and her tongue kept touching the empty space where Rasheed had knocked out one of her teeth two days before. Before Mammy and Babi died and her life changed, Laila never thought a person could take so many beatings, so often, and still keep going.

“Right. When the plates slide past each other, they catch and then slip, see Mammy? It sends energy to the surface and makes the ground shake.”

“You’re getting so smart,” Mariam said. “Much smarter than your dumb khala.” Aziza’s face lit up and she smiled.
