Laila T ariq said that one of the men who shared his cell had a cousin who'd been publicly flogged once for painting flamingos. He, the cousin, had a seemingly incurable thing for them.
 
 "Entire sketchbooks," Tariq said. "Dozens of oil paintings of them, wading in lagoons, sunbathing in marshlands. Flying into sunsets too, I'm afraid." "Flamingos," Laila said. She looked at him sitting against the wall, his good leg bent at the knee. She had an urge to touch him again, as she had earlier by the front gate when she'd run to him. It embarrassed her now to think of how she'd thrown her arms around his neck and wept into his chest, how she'd said his name over and over in a slurring, thick voice.
 
 Had she acted too eagerly, she wondered, too desperately? Maybe so. But she hadn't been able to help it. And now she longed to touch him again, to prove to herself again that he was really here, that he was not a dream, an apparition.
 
 "Indeed," he said. "Flamingos." When the Taliban had found the paintings, Tariq said, they'd taken offense at the birds' long, bare legs. After they'd tied the cousin's feet and flogged his soles bloody, they had presented him with a choice: Either destroy the paintings or make the flamingos decent. So the cousin had picked up his brush and painted trousers on every last bird "And there you have it. Islamic flamingos," Tariq said Laughter came up, but Laila pushed it back down. She was ashamed of her yellowing teeth, the missing incisor Ashamed of her withered looks and swollen lip. She wished she'd had the chance to wash her face, at least comb her hair.
 
 "But he'll have the last laugh, the cousin," Tariq said "He painted those trousers with watercolor. When the Taliban are gone, he'll just wash them off" He smiled Laila noticed that he had a missing tooth of his own and looked down at his hands. "Indeed" He was wearing apakol on his head, hiking boots, and a black wool sweater tucked into the waist of khaki pants. He was half smiling, nodding slowly. Laila didn't remember him saying this before, this word indeed, and this pensive gesture, the fingers making a tent in his lap, the nodding, it was new too. Such an adult word, such an adult gesture, and why should it be so startling? He was an adult now, Tariq, a twenty five year old man with slow movements and a tiredness to his smile. Tall, bearded, slimmer than in her dreams of him, but with strong looking hands, workman's hands, with tortuous, full veins. His face was still lean and handsome but not fair skinned any longer; his brow had a weathered look to it, sunburned, like his neck, the brow of a traveler at the end of a long and wearying journey.
 
 His pakol was pushed back on his head, and she could see that he'd started to lose his hair.
 
 The hazel of his eyes was duller than she remembered, paler, or perhaps it was merely the light in the room.
 
 198 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS Laila thought of Tariq's mother, her unhurried manners, the clever smiles, the dull purple wig.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
