Mariam was often surprised by her sadness. Just thinking about the unfinished baby crib or the coat in Rasheed’s closet would bring it out. She could almost hear the baby’s hungry sounds and feel it trying to feed. The sadness would hit her hard and leave her feeling shaken. Mariam couldn’t believe how much she missed a baby she never even got to see.

Some days, Mariam felt a little better. 

On those days, going back to her usual life didn’t seem so hard. It wasn’t such a struggle to get out of bed, pray, wash clothes, or cook for Rasheed.

Mariam didn’t want to go outside. She felt jealous of the women around her who had many kids. Some had seven or eight children and didn’t realize how lucky they were. Their kids grew up healthy and could be held close and fed. Mariam resented them when she heard them complain about their kids being naughty or lazy.

A voice inside her tried to comfort her, saying, “You’ll have more children, God willing. You’re young and will have many chances.”

But Mariam’s sadness was specific. She missed this baby, the one who had made her happy for a little while. Sometimes, she thought she didn’t deserve this happiness and was being punished for what she did to her mother, Nana. Maybe she had caused her mother’s death herself. She thought bad daughters didn’t deserve to be mothers, and this was her punishment. She had scary dreams where Nana’s spirit came to steal her baby. In the dreams, Nana laughed, feeling pleased and right.

Other days, Mariam felt angry. She blamed Rasheed for celebrating too soon and believing the baby would be a boy. He had even chosen a name. He took God’s will for granted. She blamed him for making her go to the bathhouse, thinking something there, like the steam or dirty water, caused the baby to die.

But then she thought, no, it wasn’t Rasheed’s fault. It was hers. She got mad at herself for sleeping the wrong way, eating spicy food, not eating enough fruit, or drinking too much tea.

She blamed God too, for teasing her. For not giving her what He gave so many other women. For showing her the happiness she wanted and then taking it away.

But blaming anyone didn’t help. All these thoughts just bounced around in her head without making her feel better.
