It's a chilly, overcast day, but it's warm next to Tariq under the blanket draped over their shoulders. She can see cars parked behind a low fence of chipped white paint beneath a row of windswept palm trees. The wind makes her eyes water and buries their shoes in sand, hurls knots of dead grass from the curved ridges of one dune to another. They're watching sailboats bob in the distance.
 
 Around them, seagulls squawk and shiver in the wind. The wind whips up another spray of sand off the shallow, windward slopes. There is a noise then like a chant, and she tells him something Babi had taught her years before about singing sand.
 
 He rubs at her eyebrow, wipes grains of sand from it. She catches a flicker of the band on his finger. It's identical to hers gold with a sort of maze pattern etched all the way around.
 
 It's true, she tells him. It's the friction, of grain against grain. Listen. He does. He frowns.
 
 They wait. They hear it again. A groaning sound, when the wind is soft, when it blows hard, a mewling, high pitched chorus.
 
 * * * Babi said they should take only what was absolutely necessary. They would sell the rest.
 
 "That should hold us in Peshawar until I find work." For the next two days, they gathered items to be sold. They put them in big piles.
 
 In her room, Laila set aside old blouses, old shoes, books, toys. Looking under her bed, she found a tiny yellow glass cow Hasina had passed to her during recess in fifth grade. A miniature soccer ball key chain, a gift from Giti. A little wooden zebra on wheels. A ceramic astronaut she and Tariq had found one day in a gutter. She'd been six and he eight.
 
 They'd had a minor row, Laila remembered, over which one of them had found it.
 
 Mammy too gathered her things. There was a reluctance in her movements, and her eyes had a lethargic, faraway look in them. She did away with her good plates, her napkins, all her jewelry save for her wedding band and most of her old clothes.
 
 "You're not selling this, are you?" Laila said, lifting Mammy's wedding dress. It cascaded open onto her lap. She touched the lace and ribbon along the neckline, the hand sewn seed pearls on the sleeves.
 
 Mammy shrugged and took it from her. She tossed it brusquely on a pile of clothes. Like ripping off a Band Aid in one stroke, Laila thought.
 
 It was Babi who had the most painful task.
 
 Laila found him standing in his study, a rueful expression on his face as he surveyed his shelves. He was wearing a secondhand T shirt with a picture of San Francisco's red bridge on it. Thick fog rose from the white capped waters and engulfed the bridge's towers.
 
 "You know the old bit," he said. "You're on a deserted island. You can have five books.
 
 Which do you choose? I never thought I'd actually have to." "We'll have to start you a new collection, Babi." "Mm." He smiled sadly. "I can't believe I'm leaving Kabul. I went to school here, got my first job here, became a father in this town. It's strange to think that I'll be sleeping beneath another city's skies soon." "It's strange for me too." "All day, this poem about Kabul has been bouncing around in my head. Saib-e-Tabrizi wrote it back in the seventeenth century, I think. I used to know the whole poem, but all I 121 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS can remember now is two lines: "One could not count the moons that shimmer on her roofs, Or the thousand splendid suns that hide behind her walls.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
