So she let him kiss her, and when he pulled back she leaned in and kissedhim, heart pounding in her throat, her face tingling, a fire burning in the pit of her belly.
 
 * * * In June of that yeah, 1992, there was heavy fighting in West Kabul between the Pashtun forces of the warlord Sayyaf and the Hazaras of the Wahdat faction. The shelling knocked down power lines, pulverized entire blocks of shops and homes. Laila heard that Pashtun militiamen were attacking Hazara households, breaking in and shooting entire families, execution style, and that Hazaras were retaliating by abducting Pashtun civilians, raping Pashtun girls, shelling Pashtun neighborhoods, and killing indiscriminately. Every day, bodies were found tied to trees, sometimes burned beyond recognition. Often, they'd been shot in the head, had had their eyes gouged out, their tongues cut out.
 
 Babi tried again to convince Mammy to leave Kabul.
 
 "They'll work it out," Mammy said. "This fighting is temporary. They'll sit down and figure something out." "Fariba, all these people know is war," said Babi. "They learned to walk with a milk bottle in one hand and a gun in the other." "Who are you to say?" Mammy shot back. "Did you fight jihad? Did you abandon everything you had and risk your life? If not for the Mujahideen, we'd still be the Soviets' servants, remember. And now you'd have us betray them!" "We aren't the ones doing the betraying, Fariba." "You go, then. Take your daughter and run away. Send me a postcard. But peace is coming, and I, for one, am going to wait for it." The streets became so unsafe that Babi did an unthinkable thing: He had Laila drop out of school.
 
 He took over the teaching duties himself. Laila went into his study every day after sundown, and, as Hekmatyar launched his rockets at Massoud from the southern outskirts of the city, Babi and she discussed the ghazals of Hafez and the works of the beloved Afghan poet Ustad Khalilullah Khalili. Babi taught her to derive the quadratic equation, showed her how to factor polynomials and plot parametric curves. When he was teaching, Babi was transformed. In his element, amid his books, he looked taller to Laila. His voice seemed to rise from a calmer, deeper place, and he didn't blink nearly as much. Laila pictured him as he must have been once, erasing his blackboard with graceful swipes, looking over a student's shoulder, fatherly and attentive.
 
 But it wasn't easy to pay attention. Laila kept getting distracted.
 
 "What is the area of a pyramid?" Babi would ask, and all Laila could think of was the fullness of Tariq's lips, the heat of his breath on her mouth, her own reflection in his hazel eyes. She'd kissed him twice more since the time beneath the tree, longer, more passionately, and, she thought, less clumsily. Both times, she'd met him secretly in the dim alley where he'd smoked a cigarette the day of Mammy's lunch party. The second time, she'd let him touch her breast.
 
 114 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS "Laila?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
