He said he bought it secretly. "Another loan?" Laila asked. "It's a Magnavox." Aziza came into the room. When she saw the TV, she ran over. "Be careful, Aziza jo," said Mariam. "Don't touch." Aziza’s hair was as light as Laila’s. Laila could see her own dimples on Aziza’s cheeks.

Aziza had become a quiet, thoughtful little girl, acting older than her six years. Laila was amazed by how Aziza talked, with her calm voice and careful way of speaking, very grown-up for her age. Aziza had taken charge of waking Zalmai every day, getting him dressed, feeding him breakfast, and combing his hair. She put him down for naps and helped keep peace when her little brother was upset. Around him, Aziza often shook her head like an annoyed grown-up.

Aziza pressed the TV’s power button. Rasheed frowned, grabbed her wrist, and put her hand on the table firmly.

“This is Zalmai’s TV,” he said.

Aziza went to Mariam and sat on her lap. They were very close now.

Recently, with Laila’s okay, Mariam had started teaching Aziza verses from the Koran.

Aziza could already say the surah of ikhlas and the surah of fatiha by heart, and she knew how to do the four ruqats of the morning prayer.

“It’s like oil I give her,” Mariam told Laila, meaning this knowledge and prayer. “They’re the only real things I’ve ever had.”

Zalmai came into the room now. Rasheed watched him excitedly, like someone waiting for a magic trick. Zalmai pulled on the TV’s cord, pushed buttons, and pressed his small hands on the blank screen. When he lifted them, his handprints disappeared. Rasheed smiled proudly as Zalmai kept pressing and lifting his hands again and again.

The Taliban had banned TV. Videotapes were destroyed in public, ripped out and hung on fences. Satellite dishes were hung on street lamps. But Rasheed said just because something was banned didn’t mean you couldn’t find it.

“I’ll start looking for cartoon videos tomorrow,” he said. “It won’t be hard. You can buy anything in secret markets.” “Then maybe you’ll buy us a new well,” Laila said, and he gave her a cold look.

Later, after eating plain white rice again and skipping tea because of the drought, after Rasheed smoked a cigarette, he told Laila his decision.

“No,” Laila said.

He said he wasn’t asking.

“I don’t care if you are or not.” “You would if you knew everything.” He said he had borrowed from more friends than he told her, and the shop money wasn’t enough for all five of them anymore. “I didn’t tell you before to keep you from worrying.” “Besides,” he said, “you’d be surprised how much they can make.”
