Some weeks, if her wallet didn’t have much money, she only took a five-afghan bill or nothing at all because she was scared he might notice. When she had more money, she took ten or twenty afghanis, and once she even risked taking two twenties. She hid the money in a small pouch she sewed inside her checkered winter coat.

She wondered what he would do if he found out she was planning to run away next spring.

By next summer at the latest, Laila hoped to have saved at least a thousand afghanis. Half of that would pay for the bus ticket from Kabul to Peshawar. When the time came, she would pawn her wedding ring and other jewelry that Rasheed had given her when she was still treated like a queen.

"Anyway," he said finally, tapping his belly with his fingers, "I can’t be blamed. I’m a husband.

These are the things a husband thinks about. But he’s lucky he died the way he did. Because if he were here now, if I got hold of him…" He clicked his teeth and shook his head.

"What happened to not speaking badly about the dead?" "I guess some people aren’t dead enough," he said.

***

Two days later, Laila woke up and found a pile of baby clothes folded neatly outside her bedroom door. There was a twirl dress with little pink fish sewn on the top, a blue floral wool dress with matching socks and mittens, yellow pajamas with carrot-colored dots, and green cotton pants with a frilly edge.

"There’s a rumor," Rasheed said at dinner that night, smacking his lips and not paying attention to Aziza or the pajamas Laila had put on her, "that Dostum might switch sides and join Hekmatyar. Massoud will have his hands full fighting both of them. And we can’t forget the Hazaras." He took some pickled eggplant Mariam had made that summer. "Let’s hope it’s just a rumor. Because if it’s true, this war," he waved his greasy hand, "will feel like a fun picnic at Paghman." Later, he got on top of her and finished quickly without saying a word, still dressed except for his tumban, which was pulled down around his ankles. After he was done, he rolled off and fell asleep fast.

Laila quietly left the bedroom and found Mariam in the kitchen, squatting and cleaning a pair of trout. A pot of rice was soaking nearby. The kitchen smelled like cumin, smoke, browned onions, and fish.

Laila sat in a corner and wrapped her knees with the edge of her dress.

"Thank you," she said.

Mariam didn’t answer. She finished cutting up the first trout and started on the second. Using a serrated knife, she clipped the fins, flipped it over, and sliced it skillfully from tail to gills. Laila watched as Mariam put her thumb in the fish’s mouth, pushed it in, and with one smooth cut, removed the gills and guts.

"The clothes are nice," Laila said.

"I didn’t need them," Mariam muttered. She dropped the fish on a newspaper that was now dirty with slimy gray juice and cut off its head.
