"You think?" he said. "Compared to what? The Soviets killed a million people. Do you know how many people the Mujahideen killed in Kabul alone these last four years? Fifty thousand! Fifty thousand! Is it so crazy, by comparison, to chop the hands off a few thieves? Eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth. It's in the Koran. Besides, tell me this: If someone killed Aziza, wouldn’t you want the chance to get back at them?" Laila gave him a disgusted look.

"I'm making a point," he said.

"You're just like them." "It's an interesting eye color she has, Aziza. Don’t you think? It’s neither yours nor mine." Rasheed rolled over to face her and gently scratched her thigh with his crooked finger.

"Let me explain," he said. "If I felt like it — and I’m not saying I will, but maybe — I could give Aziza away. How would you feel about that? Or I could go to the Taliban one day and just say I suspect you of something. That’s all it would take. Whose word do you think they would believe? What do you think they’d do to you?" Laila pulled her leg away from him.

"Not that I would," he said. "I wouldn’t. No. Probably not. You know me." "You’re awful," Laila said.

"That’s a big word," Rasheed said. "I’ve always hated that about you. Even when you were little, running around with that cripple, thinking you were so smart with your books and poems. What good are your smarts now? What’s keeping you off the streets, your smarts or me? I’m awful? Half the women in this city would kill to have a husband like me. They would kill for it." He rolled back and blew smoke at the ceiling.

"You like big words? I’ll give you one: perspective. That’s what I’m doing here, Laila. Making sure you don’t lose perspective." What made Laila feel sick the rest of the night was that everything Rasheed said was true.

But in the morning, and the mornings after, the sick feeling in her stomach stayed and got worse, becoming something she knew too well.

* * *

One cold, cloudy afternoon soon after, Laila lay on her back on the bedroom floor.

Mariam was napping with Aziza in her room.

In Laila’s hands was a metal spoke she had snapped off an old bicycle wheel with pliers. She found it in the same alley where she kissed Tariq years ago. For a long time, Laila lay there, breathing through her teeth, legs apart. She had loved Aziza from the moment she first thought she was going to have a child. There had been no doubt, no fear. What a terrible thing, Laila thought, for a mother to be scared she can’t love her own child. What an unnatural thing.
