She was lying on her back, her head turned to the side, looking at Mariam with a mix of fun, confusion, and doubt. Mariam wondered if her face might scare her, but then the baby laughed happily, and Mariam knew the baby liked her.

"Shh," Mariam whispered. "You'll wake your mother, even if she’s half deaf." The baby’s hand made a fist, then reached up and found its way to her mouth. With her hand in her mouth, the baby smiled at Mariam, little bubbles of spit shining on her lips.

"Look at you. You’re a mess, dressed like a boy, and all wrapped up in this heat. No wonder you’re still awake." Mariam pulled the blanket off the baby and got shocked to see another one underneath. She clicked her tongue and took that one off, too. The baby laughed with relief and waved her arms like a bird.

"Better, right?" As Mariam was moving away, the baby grabbed her pinky finger. The tiny fingers held on tight, warm and wet with drool.

"Gunuh," the baby said.

"Okay, Ms., let go." The baby held on and kicked her legs again.

Mariam pulled her finger free. The baby smiled and made happy gurgling sounds. Then she put her knuckles back in her mouth.

"What are you so happy about? Huh? What are you smiling at? You’re not as smart as your mother says. You have a tough dad and a silly mom. You wouldn’t smile so much if you knew. No, you wouldn’t. Now go to sleep. Come on." Mariam stood up and walked away, but the baby started making noises that meant she was about to cry. Mariam came back.

"What is it? What do you want from me?" The baby smiled without teeth.

Mariam sighed. She sat down and let the baby hold her finger. She watched as the baby squeaked and kicked her legs in the air. Mariam stayed there until the baby stopped moving and started to snore softly.

Outside, birds were singing happily, and sometimes when they flew, Mariam could see their wings shining blue in the moonlight through the clouds. Even though her throat was dry and her feet were tingling, it was a long time before Mariam gently pulled her finger free and stood up.
