She put down her prayer rug and prayed. When she finished, she held her hands up near her face and asked God not to let all this good luck slip away from her.

***

It was Rasheed’s idea to go to the hamam. Mariam had never been to a bathhouse before, but he said there was nothing better than stepping outside and taking that first cold breath, feeling the heat leave your skin.

In the women’s hamam, shapes moved in the steam around Mariam—a hip here, a shoulder there. The sounds of young girls laughing, old women groaning, and water dripping filled the room as people scrubbed their backs and washed their hair. Mariam sat alone in the far corner, rubbing her heels with a pumice stone, wrapped in steam that hid the moving shapes.

Then there was blood, and she screamed.

She heard feet hitting the wet stones. Faces appeared through the steam. People clicked their tongues.

Later that night, in bed, Fariba told her husband that when she heard the scream and came over, she found Rasheed’s wife curled up in a corner, hugging her knees, with blood on the floor.

“You could hear the poor girl’s teeth shaking, Hakim, she was so cold.” When Mariam saw her, Fariba said, she asked in a shaky voice, “Is this normal? Isn’t it normal? Isn’t it?”

***

Another bus ride with Rasheed. It was snowing again, thick and heavy. Snow piled up on sidewalks, roofs, and trees. Mariam watched shop owners clear snow from their doorways. A group of boys chased a black dog and waved at the bus. Mariam looked at Rasheed. His eyes were closed. He wasn’t humming. Mariam leaned her head back and closed her eyes too. She wanted to get out of her wet socks and itchy wool sweater. She wanted to get off this bus.

At the house, Rasheed covered her with a quilt when she lay on the couch, but it felt cold and fake.

“What kind of answer is that?” he said again. “That’s what a mullah is supposed to say.

You pay a doctor, you want a better answer than ‘God’s will.’” Mariam pulled her knees up under the quilt and told him he should rest.

“God’s will,” he said angrily.

He stayed in his room, smoking cigarettes all day.

Mariam lay on the couch, her hands between her knees, watching the snow swirl outside the window.
