" Laila moaned.
 
 "You can buy the medicine yourself, but " "Write the name," Mariam said. "You write it down and I'll get it." Beneath the burqa, the doctor shook her head curtly. "There is no time," she said. "For one thing, none of the nearby pharmacies have it. So you'd have to fight through traffic from one place to the next, maybe all the way across town, with little likelihood that you'd ever find it. It's almost eight thirty now, so you'll probably get arrested for breaking curfew.
 
 Even if you find the medicine, chances are you can't afford it. Or you'll find yourself in a bidding war with someone just as desperate. There is no time. This baby needs to come out now." "Tell me what's going on!" Laila said She had propped herself up on her elbows.
 
 The doctor took a breath, then told Laila that the hospital had no anesthetic.
 
 "But if we delay, you will lose your baby." "Then cut me open," Laila said. She dropped back on the bed and drew up her knees. "Cut me open and give me my baby." * * * Inside the old, dingy operating room, Laila lay on a gurney bed as the doctor scrubbed her hands in a basin. Laila was shivering. She drew in air through her teeth every time the nurse wiped her belly with a cloth soaked in a yellow brown liquid. Another nurse stood at the door. She kept cracking it open to take a peek outside.
 
 The doctor was out of her burqa now, and Mariam saw that she had a crest of silvery hair, heavy lidded eyes, and little pouches of fatigue at the corners of her mouth.
 
 "They want us to operate in burqa," the doctor explained, motioning with her head to the nurse at the door. "She keeps watch. She sees them coming; I cover." She said this in a pragmatic, almost indifferent, tone, and Mariam understood that this was a woman far past outrage. Here was a woman, she thought, who had understood that she was lucky to even be working, that there was always something, something else, that they could take away.
 
 There were two vertical, metallic rods on either side of Laila's shoulders. With clothespins, the nurse who'd cleansed Laila's belly pinned a sheet to them. It formed a curtain between Laila and the doctor.
 
 Mariam positioned herself behind the crown of Laila's head and lowered her face so their cheeks touched. She could feel Laila's teeth rattling. Their hands locked together.
 
 Through the curtain, Mariam saw the doctor's shadow move to Laila's left, the nurse to the right. Laila's lips had stretched all the way back. Spit bubbles formed and popped on the surface of her clenched teeth. She made quick, little hissing sounds.
 
 The doctor said, "Take heart, little sister." She bent over Laila.
 
 Laila's eyes snapped open. Then her mouth opened. She held like this, held, held, shivering, the cords in her neck stretched, sweat dripping from her face, her fingers crushing Mariam's.
 
 Mariam would always admire Laila for how much time passed before she screamed.
 
 174 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS 40.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
