" she said, wheeling around to face Laila.
 
 "Me?" Laila said "I didn't take it. I hardly come in here." "I've noticed." "Is that an accusation? It's how you wanted it, remember. You said you would make the meals. But if you want to switch " "So you're saying it grew little legs and walked out. Teep, teep, teep, teep. Is that what happened, degeh?' "I'm saying…" Laila said, trying to maintain control. Usually, she could will herself to absorb Mariam's derision and finger pointing. But her ankles had swollen, her head hurt, and the heartburn was vicious that day. "I am saying that maybe you've misplaced it." "Misplaced it?" Mariam pulled a drawer. The spatulas and knives inside it clanked. "How long have you been here, a few months? I've lived in this house for nineteen years, dokhiarjo. I have keptthat spoon in this drawer since you were shitting your diapers." "Still," Laila said, on the brink now, teeth clenched, "it's possible you put it somewhere and forgot." "And it’s possible you hid it somewhere, to aggravate me." "You're a sad, miserable woman," Laila said.
 
 Mariam flinched, then recovered, pursed her lips. "And you're a whore. A whore and a dozd. A thieving whore, that's what you are!" Then there was shouting Pots raised though not hurled. They'd called each other names, names that made Laila blush now. They hadn't spoken since. Laila was still shocked at how easily she'd come unhinged, but, the truth was, part of her had liked it, had liked how it felt to scream at Mariam, to curse at her, to have a target at which to focus all her simmering anger, her grief.
 
 Laila wondered, with something like insight, if it wasn't the same for Mariam.
 
 After, she had run upstairs and thrown herself on Rasheed's bed. Downstairs, Mariam was still yelling, "Dirt on your head! Dirt on your head!" Laila had lain on the bed, groaning into the pillow, missing her parents suddenly and with an overpowering intensity she hadn't felt since those terrible days just after the attack. She lay there, clutching handfuls of the bed sheet, until, suddenly, her breath caught. She sat up, hands shooting down to her belly.
 
 The baby had just kicked for the first time.
 
 142 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS 33.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
