"You can't say them like he can." She squeezed his small shoulder and kissed the back of his neck. "I can try." "Where is Baba Jan?" "Baba Jan has gone away," Laila said, her throat tightening again.

And there it was, said for the first time—the big, terrible lie. How many more times would she have to say this lie? Laila wondered sadly. How many more times would Zalmai have to be lied to? She imagined Zalmai happily running to greet Rasheed when he came home, Rasheed picking him up by the elbows and swinging him around until Zalmai’s legs flew out, the two of them laughing when Zalmai stumbled like he was drunk. She thought of their messy games, loud laughs, and secret looks.

A heavy feeling of shame and sadness for her son covered Laila.

"Where did he go?" "I don’t know, my love." When would he come back? Would Baba Jan bring a present when he returned?

She said the prayers with Zalmai. Twenty-one Bismallah-e-rahman erahims, one for each knuckle on seven fingers. She watched him cup his hands in front of his face, blow into them, then put the back of both hands on his forehead and make a motion like pushing something away, whispering, “Babaloo, be gone, do not come to Zalmai, he has no business with you.”

“Babaloo, be gone.” Then, to finish, they said “Ailah u akbar” three times. Later that night, Laila was surprised to hear a quiet voice: “Did Baba Jan leave because of me?”

Because of what I said, about you and the man downstairs?

She leaned over him, wanting to comfort him, wanting to say it wasn’t his fault. “No, nothing is your fault.” But he was asleep, his small chest rising and falling.

* * *

When Laila went to bed, her mind was cloudy and confused, unable to think clearly. But when she woke up to the call for morning prayer, much of the fog had lifted.

She sat up and watched Zalmai sleep for a while, his fist under his chin. Laila imagined Mariam sneaking into the room in the middle of the night while she and Zalmai were asleep, watching them, making plans in her head.

Laila got out of bed. It was hard to stand. She ached everywhere—her neck, shoulders, back, arms, and thighs—all marked by the cuts from Rasheed’s belt buckle.
