When she laughed, she covered her mouth with a fist to hide the bad tooth.
 
 Nana asked about his businesses. And his wives too. When she told him that she had heard, through Bibi jo, that his youngest wife, Nargis, was expecting her third child, Jalil smiled courteously and nodded.
 
 "Well. You must be happy," Nana said. "How many is that for you, now? Ten, is it, mashallah? Ten?" Jalil said yes, ten.
 
 "Eleven, if you count Mariam, of course." Later, after Jalil went home, Mariam and Nana had a small fight about this. Mariam said she had tricked him.
 
 After tea with Nana, Mariam and Jalil always went fishing in the stream. He showed her how to cast her line, how to reel in the trout. He taught her the proper way to gut a trout, to clean it, to lift the meat off the bone in one motion. He drew pictures for her as they waited for a strike, showed her how to draw an elephant in one stroke without ever lifting the pen off the paper. He taught her rhymes. Together they sang: Lili lili birdbath, Sitting on a dirt path, Minnow sat on the rim and drank, Slipped, and in the water she sank.
 
 Jalil brought clippings from Herat's newspaper, Iiiifaq-i Islam, and read from them to her.
 
 He was Mariam's link, her proof that there existed a world at large, beyond the kolba, beyond Gul Daman and Herat too, a world of presidents with unpronounceable names, and trains and museums and soccer, and rockets that orbited the earth and landed on the moon, and, every Thursday, Jalil brought a piece of that world with him to the kolba.
 
 He was the one who told her in the summer of 1973, when Mariam was fourteen, that King Zahir Shah, who had ruled from Kabul for forty years, had been overthrown in a bloodless coup.
 
 "His cousin Daoud Khan did it while the king was in Italy getting medical treatment You remember Daoud Khan, right? I told you about him. He was prime minister in Kabul when you were bom. Anyway, Afghanistan is no longer a monarchy, Mariam. You see, it's a republic now, and Daoud Khan is the president. There are rumors that the socialists in Kabul helped him take power. Not that he's a socialist himself, mind you, but that they helped him. That's the rumor anyway." Mariam asked him what a socialist was and Jalil began to explain, but Mariam barely 16 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS heard him.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
