Babi ran his finger over the rip in the cloth. "I'll fix this when I can. We should go now." He called out loudly, "We're leaving, Fariba! I'm taking Laila to school. Don't forget to pick her up!" 

Outside, as Laila climbed onto the carrier on Babi's bike, she saw a car parked down the street near the shoemaker Rasheed’s house. It was a Benz, which was rare in their neighborhood. The car was blue with a thick white stripe running across the hood, roof, and trunk. Laila noticed two men inside, one driving and one in the back seat.

"Who are they?" she asked.

"That’s none of our business," Babi said. "Get on, you'll be late for class." Laila remembered another time when Mammy had told Babi that it was his business, especially when their own sons were going off to war. But Babi had ignored her and kept reading his books.

Babi started pedaling up the street, with Laila holding onto him. As they passed the blue Benz, Laila caught a quick look at the man in the back seat. He was thin, had white hair, wore a dark brown suit, and had a white handkerchief in his jacket pocket. She also noticed the car had Herat license plates.

They rode the rest of the way quietly. When they needed to turn, Babi slowed down carefully and said, "Hold on, Laila. Slowing down. Slowing down. There."

***

In class that day, Laila couldn’t focus because Tariq wasn’t there and her parents were still fighting. So when the teacher asked her to name the capitals of Romania and Cuba, she was surprised and didn’t know the answer.

The teacher’s name was Shanzai, but the students called her Khala Rangmaal, which means Auntie Painter. They gave her that nickname because she slapped students' hands like she was painting with a brush. Khala Rangmaal was a young woman with sharp features and thick eyebrows. On the first day of school, she told the class she was the daughter of a poor farmer from Khost. She stood straight and wore her black hair tied tightly in a bun. When she turned around, Laila could see the dark stubble on her neck.

Khala Rangmaal didn’t wear makeup or jewelry. She didn’t cover her hair and didn’t allow the girls in class to cover theirs either. She said men and women were equal, so girls didn’t need to cover themselves if boys didn’t.

She also said the Soviet Union was the best country in the world, along with Afghanistan.
