From that night on, Mariam and Laila did their chores together. They sat in the kitchen rolling dough, chopping green onions, mincing garlic, and giving bits of cucumber to Aziza. Aziza banged spoons nearby and played with carrots. In the yard, Aziza lay in a wicker bassinet, dressed in warm clothes with a scarf wrapped around her neck. Mariam and Laila watched her carefully while they washed clothes, their knuckles bumping as they scrubbed shirts, pants, and diapers.

Mariam slowly got used to this new but nice friendship. She looked forward to the three cups of chai she and Laila shared in the yard every night.

In the mornings, Mariam waited excitedly to hear Laila’s slippers tapping on the steps as she came down for breakfast and to hear Aziza’s high-pitched laugh. She loved seeing Aziza’s eight little teeth and smelling her soft skin. If Laila and Aziza slept late, Mariam got worried. She washed dishes that didn’t need washing, moved cushions around, and dusted windowsills to keep busy until Laila came into the kitchen with Aziza on her hip.

When Aziza first saw Mariam in the morning, her eyes opened wide and she started meowing and squirming in her mother’s arms. She reached out her hands to Mariam, wanting to be held, looking both happy and a little scared.

“What a scene you’re making,” Laila would say, letting Aziza crawl toward Mariam.

“What a scene! Calm down. Khala Mariam isn’t going anywhere. There she is, your aunt. See? Go on now.” As soon as Aziza was in Mariam’s arms, she sucked her thumb and buried her face in Mariam’s neck.

Mariam bounced her gently, smiling a bit confused but grateful. No one had ever wanted her like this before. Love had never been shown to her so simply and openly.

Aziza made Mariam want to cry.

“Why have you given your little heart to an old, ugly woman like me?” Mariam whispered into Aziza’s hair. “I’m nobody, don’t you see? A nobody. What can I give you?” But Aziza just made happy sounds and snuggled in closer. When she did that, Mariam’s eyes filled with tears. Her heart felt like it was flying. She was amazed that after all these years of feeling alone, she had finally found a real connection with this little girl.

* * *

Early the next year, in January 1994, Dostum changed sides. He joined Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and took a position near Bala Hissar, the old fortress walls that towered over the city from the Koh-e-Shirdawaza mountains. Together, they fired on Massoud and Rabbani’s forces at the Ministry of Defense and the Presidential Palace.
