Bui you would not see me. I was disappointed but could not blame you. In your place, I might have done the same. I lost the privilege of your good graces a long time ago and for that I only have myself to blame.
 
 Bui if you are reading this letter, then you have read the letter that I left at your door. You have read it and you have come to see Mullah Faizullah, as I had asked that you do. I am grateful that you did, Mariam jo. I am grateful for this chance to say a few words to you.
 
 Where do I begin?
 
 Your father has known so much sorrow since we last spoke, Mariam jo. Your stepmother Afsoon was killed on the first day of the 1979 uprising. A stray bullet killed your sister Niloufar that same day. I can still see her, my Utile Niloufar, doing headstands to impress guests. Your brother Farhad joined the jihad in J 980. The Soviets killed him in J 982, just outside of Helmand. I never got to see his body. I don't know if you have children of your own, Mariam jo, but if you do I pray that God look after them and spare you the grief that I have known. I still dream of them. I still dream of my dead children.
 
 I have dreams of you too, Mariam jo. I miss you. I miss the sound of your voice, your laughter. I miss reading to you, and all those times we fished together. Do you remember all those times we fished together? You were a good daughter, Mariam jo, and I cannot ever think of you without feeling shame and regret. Regret… When it comes to you, Mariam jo, I have oceans of it. I regret that I did not see you the day you came to Herat. I regret that I did not open the door and take you in. I regret that I did not make you a daughter to me, that I let you live in that place for all those years. And for what? Fear of losing face?
 
 Of staining my so called good name? How Utile those things matter to me now after all the loss, all the terrible things I have seen in this cursed war. Bui now, of course, it is too late.
 
 Perhaps this is just punishment for those who have been heartless, to understand only when nothing can be undone. Now all I can do is say that you were a good daughter, Mariam jo, and that I never deserved you. Now all I can do is ask for your forgiveness. So forgive me, Mariam jo. Forgive me. Forgive me. Forgive me.
 
 I am not the wealthy man you once knew. The communists confiscated so much of my land, and all of my stores as well. But it is petty to complain, for God for reasons that I do not understand has still blessed me with far more than most people. Since my return from Kabul, I have managed to sell what Utile remained of my land. I have enclosed for you your share of the inheritance. You can see that it is far from a fortune, but it is something.
 
 It is something. (You will also notice that I have taken the liberty of exchanging the money into dollars. I think it is for the best God alone knows the fate of our own beleaguered currency.) I hope you do not think that I am trying to buy your forgiveness. I hope you will credit me with knowing that your forgiveness is not for sale. It never was. I am merely giving you, if belatedly, what was rightfully yours all along. I was not a dutiful father to you in life.
 
 Perhaps in death I can be.
 
 Ah, death. I won't burden you with details, but death is within sight for me now. Weak heart, the doctors say. It is a fitting manner of death, I think, for a weak man.
 
 245 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS Mariam jo, I dare, I dare allow myself the hope that, after you read this, you will be more charitable to me than I ever was to you.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
