On both sides of the Kabul River, they were shooting artillery at each other. The streets were full of dead bodies, broken glass, and twisted pieces of metal. There was stealing, killing, and more and more rape, which was used to scare people and reward fighters. Mariam heard about women who were killing themselves because they were afraid of being raped, and men who, to protect their honor, would kill their wives or daughters if the militia had raped them.

Aziza screamed at the loud thumping of mortars. To keep her busy, Mariam made patterns with grains of rice on the floor, like a house, a rooster, or a star, and let Aziza scatter them. She drew elephants for Aziza the way Jalil had taught her, in one smooth line without lifting the pen.

Rasheed said civilians were being killed every day, by the dozens. Hospitals and stores with medicine were being bombed. Trucks with emergency food were not allowed into the city; they were stopped, robbed, or shot at. Mariam wondered if there was fighting like this in Herat too, and if Mullah Faizullah was okay, if he was still alive, and how Bibijo was doing with all her family. And, of course, Jalil.

She wondered if Jalil was hiding like her or if he had taken his wives and kids and left the country. She hoped he was somewhere safe and had escaped all the fighting.

For a week, the fighting kept Rasheed home. He locked the yard door, set traps, locked the front door, and blocked it with the couch. He paced around the house, smoked, looked out the window, cleaned his gun, and loaded it over and over.

Twice, he fired his gun into the street, saying he saw someone trying to climb the wall.

“They’re forcing boys to join,” he said. “The Mujahideen are doing it. In daylight, at gunpoint. They grab boys off the streets. When rival soldiers catch these boys, they torture them. I heard they use electric shocks and even crush their balls with pliers. They make the boys lead them to their homes. Then they break in, kill their fathers, and rape their sisters and mothers.” He waved his gun over his head. “Let them try to break into my house. I’ll crush their balls! I’ll shoot them! Do you know how lucky you two are to have a man who isn’t afraid of the devil himself?” He looked down and saw Aziza at his feet. “Get off my heels!” he snapped, moving the gun to shoo her away. “Stop following me! And stop twirling your wrists like that. I’m not picking you up. Go on! Go before you get stepped on.” Aziza flinched and crawled back to Mariam, looking hurt and confused. She sucked her thumb quietly in Mariam’s lap and watched Rasheed with a sad, thoughtful look.

Sometimes, Mariam thought Aziza looked up wanting to be comforted.

But when it came to fathers, Mariam had no comfort to give.

* * *

Mariam was relieved when the fighting stopped again, mostly because they didn’t have to stay trapped with Rasheed and his bad mood. He had also scared her a lot by waving that loaded gun near Aziza.

One day that winter, Laila asked if she could braid Mariam’s hair.
