“His second,” Tariq’s mom said, giving her husband a warning look.

Tariq’s dad blew smoke and winked at Laila. It hit her again that Tariq’s parents looked like they could be his grandparents. His mom didn’t have him until she was well into her forties.

“How is your father, my dear?” Tariq’s mom asked, watching her bowl. Laila had always noticed that Tariq’s mom wore a wig. It was turning a dull purple with age.

Today, the wig was pulled low on her forehead, and Laila could see her gray sideburn hairs.

Sometimes, the wig was pushed high on her forehead. But to Laila, Tariq’s mom never looked sad wearing it. What Laila saw was a calm, confident face under the wig, clever eyes, and kind, slow manners.

“He’s fine,” Laila said. “Still working at Silo, of course. He’s fine.” “And your mother?” “Some good days. Some bad ones too. The same.” “Yes,” Tariq’s mom said thoughtfully, lowering her spoon into the bowl. “It must be so hard, so very hard, for a mother to be away from her sons.” 

“Are you staying for lunch?” Tariq asked. “You have to,” his mom said. “I’m making shorwa.” “I don’t want to be a mozahem.” “Imposing?” Tariq’s mom said. “We leave for a couple of weeks and you get all polite on us?” “Okay, I’ll stay,” Laila said, blushing and smiling.

“It’s settled, then.” The truth was, Laila loved eating at Tariq’s house much more than at hers. At Tariq’s, no one ate alone; they always ate together as a family. Laila liked their violet plastic drinking glasses and the quarter lemon floating in the water pitcher. She liked how they started every meal with fresh yogurt, squeezed sour oranges on everything, even the yogurt, and how they made little jokes about each other.

During meals, they always talked a lot. Even though Tariq and his parents were Pashtuns, they spoke Farsi around Laila to help her understand, even though she kind of understood Pashto, their real language, from school. Babi said there were tensions between their people, the Tajiks, who were fewer, and Tariq’s people, the Pashtuns, who were the biggest group in Afghanistan.
