The wind makes the tall grass slam against Laila's calves as she and Hamza climb the path, take the turns. On either side of them is a kaleidoscope of wilciflowers swaying in the wind, some tall with curved petals, others low, fan leafed. Here and there a few ragged buttercups peep through the low bushes. Laila hears the twitter of swallows overhead and the busy chatter of grasshoppers underfoot.
 
 They walk uphill this way for two hundred yards or more. Then the path levels, and opens into a flatter patch of land. They stop, catch their breath. Laila dabs at her brow with her sleeve and bats at a swarm of mosquitoes hovering in front of her face. Here she sees the low slung mountains in the horizon, a few cottonwoods, some poplars, various wild bushes that she cannot name.
 
 "There used to be a stream here," Hamza says, a little out of breath. "But it's long dried up now." He says he will wait here. He tells her to cross the dry streambed, walk toward the mountains.
 
 "I'll wait here," he says, sitting on a rock beneath a poplar. "You go on." "I won't " "Don't worry. Take your time. Go on, hamshireh. " Laila thanks him. She crosses the streambed, stepping from one stone to another. She spots broken soda bottles amid the rocks, rusted cans, and a mold coated metallic container with a zinc lid half buried in the ground.
 
 She heads toward the mountains, toward the weeping willows, which she can see now, the long drooping branches shaking with each gust of wind. In her chest, her heart is drumming.
 
 She sees that the willows are arranged as Mariam had said, in a circular grove with a clearing in the middle. Laila walks faster, almost running now. She looks back over her shoulder and sees that Hamza is a tiny figure, his chapan a burst of color against the brown of the trees' bark. She trips over a stone and almost falls, then regains her footing. She hurries the rest of the way with the legs of her trousers pulled up. She is panting by the time she reaches the willows.
 
 Mariam's kolba is still here.
 
 When she approaches it, Laila sees that the lone windowpane is empty and that the door is gone. Mariam had described a chicken coop and a tandoor, a wooden outhouse too, but Laila sees no sign of them. She pauses at the entrance to the kolba She can hear flies buzzing inside.
 
 To get in, she has to sidestep a large fluttering spider web. It's dim inside. Laila has to give her eyes a few moments to adjust. When they do, she sees that the interior is even smaller than she'd imagined. Only half of a single rotting, splintered board remains of the 241 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS floorboards.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
