She waved and shouted, "Eidmubarak!" Mariam nodded slightly from inside her burqa.

"So, do you know that woman, the teacher’s wife?" Rasheed asked. Mariam said no.

"Better stay away from her. She’s a nosy gossip. And her husband thinks he’s smart, but he’s really like a little mouse. Look at him. Doesn’t he look like a mouse?" They went to Shar-e-Nau, where kids played in new shirts and colorful vests, talking about their Eid gifts. Women carried trays full of sweets. Mariam saw bright lanterns hanging in shop windows and heard loud music playing.

Strangers said "Eidmubarak" to her as they walked by.

That night, they went to Chaman. Mariam stood behind Rasheed and watched fireworks light up the sky in green, pink, and yellow. She missed sitting with Mullah Faizullah outside the kolba, watching fireworks over Herat, the colors shining in her tutor’s old, cloudy eyes. But mostly, she missed Nana. Mariam wished her mother was alive to see this. To see her here, surrounded by all this. To know that happiness and beauty were possible. Even for people like them.

***

They had visitors at the house for Eid. They were all men, friends of Rasheed. When someone knocked, Mariam knew to go upstairs to her room and close the door. She stayed there while the men drank tea, smoked, and talked downstairs with Rasheed. Rasheed told Mariam not to come down until they left. She didn’t mind. Actually, she felt proud. Rasheed cared about their relationship. He wanted to protect her honor. She felt special and important because of that.

On the last day of Eid, Rasheed went to visit some friends. Mariam had felt sick all night, so she boiled water and made herself green tea with crushed cardamom. In the living room, she saw the mess from last night: cups knocked over, half-eaten pumpkin seeds hidden between mattresses, and plates with dried food. Mariam started cleaning and thought about how lazy but energetic men could be.

She didn’t mean to go into Rasheed’s room. But cleaning took her from the living room to the stairs, then the upstairs hallway, and finally to his door. Before she knew it, she was inside his room, sitting on his bed, feeling like she didn’t belong.

She looked around. There were heavy green curtains, neat pairs of shiny shoes along the wall, and a closet door with paint chipped off, showing the wood underneath.
