Hasina wasn’t very smart, but she was really mischievous and talked a lot, Giti said. Hasina had come up with the nickname Khala Rangmaal. Today, Hasina was giving advice on how to avoid ugly boys who wanted to marry them. "This method will definitely work. I promise," she said. "This is silly. I’m too young to have a boyfriend!" Giti said.

"You’re not too young." "Well, no one has asked to marry me." "That’s because you have a beard, my dear." Giti touched her chin and looked worried at Laila, who smiled kindly. Giti was the most serious person Laila had ever met and shook her head to calm her down.

"Anyway, do you want to know what to do or not, girls?" "Go ahead," Laila said.

"Beans. At least four cans. On the night the toothless lizard comes to ask for you. But timing is everything. You have to hold back the stink until it’s time to give him his tea." "I’ll remember that," Laila said.

"So will he." Laila could have said she didn’t need this advice because Babi didn’t plan to give her away anytime soon. Babi worked at Silo, Kabul’s huge bread factory, where he worked hard all day near hot ovens and machines. He had gone to university and used to be a high school teacher before the communists fired him after their 1978 takeover, about a year before the Soviets invaded. Babi had told Laila from when she was young that her safety was most important, but after that, her schooling was the top thing.

"I know you’re still young, but I want you to understand this now," he said.

"Marriage can wait, but education can’t. You’re a very smart girl. You can be anything you want, Laila. I know this. And I also know that after this war, Afghanistan will need you as much as the men, maybe even more. Because a country can’t do well if its women aren’t educated. No chance."

But Laila didn’t tell Hasina what Babi had said, or how happy she was to have a dad like him, or how proud she was that he cared so much about her, or how determined she was to keep studying just like he did. For the last two years, Laila had gotten the awal numra certificate, which is given every year to the best student in each grade.

She said nothing about this to Hasina, whose dad was a grumpy taxi driver who would probably marry her off in a few years.
