Their loud screams hurt her ears. Far away, big bangs echoed and sudden clouds of smoke rose into the sky.

"What's happening, Rasheed?" she asked. "What is all this?" "God knows," he whispered. He tried the radio but only heard static.

"What do we do?" Impatiently, Rasheed said, "We wait."

***

Later that day, Rasheed was still trying the radio while Mariam cooked rice with spinach sauce in the kitchen. Mariam remembered when she used to enjoy cooking for Rasheed and even looked forward to it. Now, cooking made her very nervous. The dishes were always either too salty or too bland for him. The rice was either too greasy or too dry, and the bread was either too soft or too hard. Rasheed’s constant complaining made her feel very unsure of herself in the kitchen.

When she gave him his plate, the national anthem was playing on the radio.

"I made sabzi," she said.

"Put it down and be quiet." After the music stopped, a man's voice came on the radio. He said he was Air Force Colonel Abdul Qader. He said that earlier that day, the rebel Fourth Armored Division had taken over the airport and important parts of the city. Kabul Radio, the Communication and Interior ministries, and the Foreign Ministry building had also been captured. Kabul was now controlled by the people, he said proudly. Rebel fighter jets had attacked the Presidential Palace. Tanks had broken in, and a fierce battle was happening there. Daoud’s loyal forces were almost defeated, Abdul Qader said, sounding sure.

Days later, when the communists started quickly killing those connected to Daoud Khan’s government, and when rumors spread in Kabul about people being tortured in Pol-e-Charkhi Prison, Mariam would hear about the massacre at the Presidential Palace. Daoud Khan was dead, but not before the communist rebels killed about twenty members of his family, including women and children. There were rumors that he had killed himself, that he was shot in the battle; some said he was kept alive to watch his family being killed, then shot.

Rasheed turned up the volume and leaned closer.

"A revolutionary council of the armed forces has been set up, and our country will now be called the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan," Abdul Qader said. "The time of aristocrats, family favoritism, and unfairness is over, fellow citizens."
