He told her about the green wheat fields of Herat, the orchards, the grapevines full of big grapes, and the busy, covered markets in the city.

"There's a pistachio tree," Jalil said one day, "and under it, Mariam jo, is buried the famous poet Jami." He leaned closer and whispered, "Jami lived more than five hundred years ago. I took you there once, when you were little. You probably don’t remember." It was true. Mariam didn’t remember. Even though she lived close to Herat for the first fifteen years of her life, Mariam would never see that special tree. She would never get close to the famous minarets, pick fruit from the orchards, or walk in the wheat fields. But whenever Jalil talked like this, Mariam would listen with wonder. She admired Jalil for knowing so much about the world. She felt proud to have a father who knew these things.

"What rich lies!" Nana said after Jalil left. "Rich man telling rich lies. He never took you to any tree. Don’t let him fool you. He betrayed us, your father. He kicked us out of his big fancy house like we meant nothing. And he was happy to do it." Mariam would listen and obey. She never told Nana how much she hated hearing her talk like that about Jalil. The truth was, when she was with Jalil, Mariam didn’t feel like a harami at all. For an hour or two every Thursday, when Jalil came smiling with gifts and kind words, Mariam felt like she deserved all the good things in life. For that, Mariam loved Jalil.

* * * Even if she had to share him.

Jalil had three wives and nine children, nine real children, all strangers to Mariam. He was one of the richest men in Herat. He owned a cinema, which Mariam had never seen, but Jalil had described it to her because she asked. She knew the front was made of blue-and-tan tiles, it had private balcony seats, and a ceiling with a trellis. Double doors opened into a tiled lobby where movie posters were behind glass. On Tuesdays, Jalil said, kids got free ice cream at the snack stand. Nana smiled quietly when he said this. She waited until he left their small home before laughing and saying, "The children of strangers get ice cream. What do you get, Mariam? Stories of ice cream." Besides the cinema, Jalil owned land in Karokh and Farah, three carpet stores, a clothing shop, and a black 1956 Buick Roadmaster. He was one of Herat’s most connected men, friends with the mayor and the governor. He had a cook, a driver, and three housekeepers.

Nana had been one of those housekeepers.
