They sat across from her, Jalil and his wives, at a long, dark brown table. In the middle of the table was a clear vase with fresh marigold flowers and a cold pitcher of water. The red-haired woman who said she was Niloufar's mom, Afsoon, sat on Jalil's right side. The other two women, Khadija and Nargis, sat on his left. Each wife wore a thin black scarf, not on their heads but loosely tied around their necks like they didn’t really care. Mariam couldn’t imagine they’d wear black for Nana, but she thought maybe one of them or Jalil suggested it just before she was called.

Afsoon poured water from the pitcher and put a glass in front of Mariam on a checkered cloth. “It’s only spring, but it’s already warm,” she said, fanning her hand.

“Have you been comfortable?” Nargis, who had a small chin and curly black hair, asked.

“We hope you’ve been comfortable. This… hard time… must be really tough for you,” the other two said, nodding. Mariam noticed their thin eyebrows and the small, polite smiles. Her head felt heavy and her throat burned.

She drank some water.

Through the big window behind Jalil, Mariam could see a row of apple trees with flowers.

Next to the window was a dark wooden cabinet. Inside was a clock and a photo of Jalil and three boys holding a fish. The sun made the fish’s scales shine. Jalil and the boys were smiling.

“Well,” Afsoon started. “I—that is, we—brought you here because we have some very good news.” Mariam looked up.

She saw the women glance at each other over Jalil, who slouched in his chair staring at the pitcher. Khadija, the oldest wife, looked at Mariam. Mariam felt like they had planned this before calling her.

“You have a suitor,” Khadija said.

Mariam’s stomach dropped. “A what?” she said, her lips going numb.

“A khasiegar. A suitor. His name is Rasheed,” Khadija explained. “He’s a friend of a business contact of your dad’s. He’s a Pashtun from Kandahar but lives in Kabul, in Deh Mazang, in a two-story house he owns.” Afsoon nodded. “And he speaks Farsi, like us and you. So you won’t have to learn Pashto.”
