Mammy was nearby, wearing a bright summer dress. She was peeling boiled eggs with Wajma, the midwife, and Tariq's mother.

"I'm going to give Commander Massoud a picture of Ahmad and Noor," Mammy told Wajma. Wajma nodded and tried to look interested.

"He was there for the burial. He said a prayer at their grave. It will be a way to thank him for being kind." Mammy cracked another egg. "I hear he's a thoughtful, honorable man. I think he will like it." Around them, women rushed in and out of the kitchen, carrying bowls of food, platters, bread, and putting it all on the sofrah on the living room floor.

Sometimes, Tariq walked in slowly. He picked at different foods.

"No boys allowed," said Giti.

"Out, out, out," Wajma said.

Tariq smiled at the women shooing him away. He seemed to enjoy being unwelcome, bringing a playful, boyish vibe to the room.

Laila tried not to look at him, not wanting to give the women more to talk about. She kept her eyes down and said nothing. But she remembered a dream she had a few nights ago, of their faces together in a mirror under a soft, green veil. Rice grains fell from his hair, bouncing off the glass.

Tariq reached to try some veal with potatoes.

"Hey kid!" Giti slapped his hand. Tariq took the food anyway and laughed.

He was almost a foot taller than Laila now. He shaved his face. His face was thinner and sharper. His shoulders were wider. Tariq liked to wear pleated pants, shiny black loafers, and short-sleeve shirts that showed off his strong arms from lifting old barbells in his yard every day. He often tilted his head to the side when he talked and raised one eyebrow when he laughed. He let his hair grow and often tossed it around for no reason.

That sly, half smile was new too.

The last time Tariq was kicked out of the kitchen, his mother saw Laila sneaking a look at him. Laila's heart jumped, and she quickly looked away. She busied herself by putting chopped cucumber into a pitcher of watered-down salted yogurt.

But she could feel Tariq's mother watching her, with a knowing, approving smile.

The men filled their plates and glasses and took their food outside to the yard.
