Watch how she laughs when I snap my fingers. There. See? Did you see?" Rasheed would grunt and go back to his plate. Mariam remembered how the girl's presence used to overwhelm him. Everything she said used to make him happy, interested, and he would look up from his plate and nod.

The strange thing was, the girl's fall from grace should have made Mariam feel better and proven her right. But it didn’t. To her surprise, Mariam felt sorry for the girl.

It was also during dinner that the girl shared her worries. The biggest fear was pneumonia, which they thought she had every time she coughed a little. Then there was dysentery, which they feared with every loose stool. Every rash was either chicken pox or measles.

"You shouldn’t get so attached," Rasheed said one night.

"What do you mean?" "I was listening to the radio the other night. Voice of America. I heard a shocking fact. They said that in Afghanistan, one out of four children dies before turning five. That’s what they said. Now, they What? What? Where are you going? Come back here.

Get back here right now!" He gave Mariam a confused look. "What’s wrong with her?" That night, Mariam was lying in bed when the arguing started again. It was a hot, dry summer night, typical for the month of Saratan in Kabul. Mariam had opened her window, then closed it when no breeze came to cool the heat, only mosquitoes. She could feel heat rising from the ground outside, through the old outhouse in the yard, up the walls and into her room.

Usually, the arguing stopped after a few minutes, but half an hour passed and it kept getting worse. Mariam could hear Rasheed shouting now. The girl’s voice, under his, was shaky and high. Soon the baby was crying loudly.

Then Mariam heard their door slam open. In the morning, she would see the mark the doorknob left on the hallway wall. She was sitting up in bed when her own door slammed open and Rasheed came in.

He was wearing white underwear and a matching undershirt, stained yellow with sweat under the arms. On his feet, he wore flip flops. He held a belt in his hand, the brown leather one he had bought for his marriage with the girl, and was twisting the end of it around his fist.

"It’s your fault. I know it is," he growled, moving toward her.

Mariam slid out of bed and started backing away. Her arms crossed over her chest, where he usually hit her first.

"What are you talking about?" she stammered.

"Her denying me. You’re teaching her to." Over the years, Mariam had learned to ignore his insults and blame. But this fear she couldn’t control. After all these years, she still shook with fear when he acted like this, sneering, tightening the belt around his fist, the leather creaking, the shine in his angry eyes. It was like a scared goat set loose with a tiger, and the tiger just looked up and started to growl. Now the girl was in the room, her eyes wide, her face twisted.

"I should have known you’d ruin her," Rasheed spat at Mariam.
