If she could say it, she might have told Nana that she was tired of being used, lied to, and treated like a tool. She was fed up with Nana twisting the truth about their life and making Mariam just another problem to blame on the world.

She might have said, "You're scared, Nana. You're scared I might find the happiness you never had. And you don’t want me to be happy. You don’t want me to live a good life. You’re the one with the broken heart."

There was a spot on the edge of a clearing where Mariam liked to go. She sat there now, on the dry, warm grass. From there, she could see Herat spread out like a board game: the Women’s Garden to the north, the Char-suq Bazaar and the ruins of Alexander the Great’s old fortress to the south. She could spot the minarets far away, looking like giant dusty fingers, and the streets where she imagined people, carts, and mules moving around. Swallows flew and circled above her, and she felt jealous of those birds. They had been to Herat. They had flown over its mosques and markets.

Maybe they had even landed on the walls of Jalil’s home, or on the steps of his cinema.

She picked up ten small stones and lined them up in three columns. This was a game she played sometimes when Nana wasn’t watching. She put four stones in the first column for Khadija’s children, three for Afsoon’s, and three for Nargis’s children. Then she added a fourth column with one lonely pebble.

The next morning, Mariam wore a cream-colored dress that reached her knees, cotton pants, and a green hijab over her hair. She worried a little about the hijab because it was green and didn’t match her dress, but it was all she had—her white one had holes from moths.

She checked the clock. It was an old wind-up clock with black numbers on a mint green face, a gift from Mullah Faizullah. It was nine o’clock. She wondered where Nana was. She thought about going outside to find her, but she was scared of the fight that might happen. Nana would accuse her of betraying her and make fun of her dreams.

Mariam sat down and tried to pass the time by drawing an elephant in one stroke, like Jalil had taught her many times. She got stiff from sitting so long but didn’t lie down because she was afraid her dress would get wrinkled.

When the clock finally showed eleven thirty, Mariam put the eleven pebbles in her pocket and went outside. On the way to the stream, she saw Nana sitting in a chair, in the shade, under the round roof of a weeping willow tree. Mariam couldn’t tell if Nana saw her or not.

At the stream, Mariam waited at the spot they had agreed on the day before.
