It was all fake. Like a show. He was trying, in a sneaky and sad way, to impress her. To win her over.

And then Mariam realized she was right. She felt a terrible shock, like getting hit hard in the head, knowing that what she was seeing was him trying to date her.

* * *

When she finally got the courage, Mariam went to his room.

Rasheed lit a cigarette and said, "Why not?" Mariam knew right away she had lost. She had hoped he would deny it or act shocked so she could feel strong and maybe shame him. But his calm and matter-of-fact voice took her strength away.

"Sit down," he said. He lay on his bed with his back against the wall, his big legs stretched out. "Sit down before you faint and hurt yourself." Mariam sat down on the chair next to his bed.

"Hand me that ashtray, please," he said.

She did as he asked.

Rasheed had to be over sixty, though even he didn’t know exactly how old he was. His hair was white but still thick and rough. His eyelids and neck skin were saggy and wrinkled. His cheeks hung more than before. In the mornings, he bent over a little. But he still had wide shoulders, a strong chest, big hands, and a big belly that you noticed before anything else.

Mariam thought he had handled getting older better than she had.

"We need to make this official," he said, balancing the ashtray on his belly. He puckered his lips playfully. "People will talk. It looks bad for me, for her, and for you. An unmarried young woman living here is dishonorable."

"Eighteen years," Mariam said. "And I never asked you for anything. Not once. But now I am."

He breathed in smoke and let it out slowly. "She can't just stay here if that's what you mean. I can’t keep feeding her, giving her clothes, and a place to sleep. I'm not the Red Cross, Mariam."

"But this?"

"What about it? You think she’s too young? She's fourteen. Not a kid. You were fifteen once, remember? My mom was fourteen when she had me. She married at thirteen."

"I...I don’t want this," Mariam said, feeling numb and angry.

"It’s not your choice. It’s hers and mine."

"I'm too old."

"She’s too young, you're too old. This is nonsense."

"I am too old. Too old for you to do this to me," Mariam said, squeezing her dress so hard her hands shook. "After all these years, for you to make me an ambagh."

"Don’t be so dramatic."
