He swung the belt, hitting his own thigh to test it. The buckle made a loud noise.

"Stop it, basl," the girl said. "Rasheed, you can’t do this." "Go back to the room." Mariam stepped back quickly.

"No! Don’t do this!" Now!

Rasheed raised the belt again and moved toward Mariam.

Then something surprising happened: The girl jumped at him. She grabbed his arm with both hands and tried to pull him down, but she only dangled from it. Still, she slowed Rasheed down from getting to Mariam.

"Let go!" Rasheed shouted.

"You win. You win. Don’t do this. Please, Rasheed, no beating! Please don’t do this." They struggled, the girl holding on and begging, Rasheed trying to shake her off, his eyes on Mariam, who was too shocked to move.

In the end, Mariam knew there would be no beating, not that night. Rasheed had made his point. He stayed like that a few moments longer, arm raised, breathing hard, sweat on his forehead. Slowly, he lowered his arm. The girl’s feet touched the ground, but she still wouldn’t let go, as if she didn’t trust him. He had to pull his arm free.

"I’m on to you," he said, throwing the belt over his shoulder. "I’m on to you both. I won’t be made an ahmaq, a fool, in my own house." He gave Mariam a last angry look and pushed the girl as he left.

When the door closed, Mariam got back into bed, buried her head under the pillow, and waited for the shaking to stop.

* * *

That night, Mariam woke up three times. First, because she heard rockets in the west near Karteh Char. Second, because the baby was crying downstairs, and the girl was trying to calm it while making noises with a spoon and milk bottle. Last, she woke up because she was thirsty.

Downstairs, the living room was dark except for some moonlight shining through the window. Mariam heard a fly buzzing and saw the shadow of the old stove in the corner, with its pipe going up and then turning sharply near the ceiling.

As she walked to the kitchen, Mariam almost tripped on something. It was the girl and her baby lying on a quilt on the floor.

The girl was sleeping on her side, snoring. The baby was awake. Mariam lit the kerosene lamp on the table and crouched down. In the light, she got her first real close look at the baby’s dark hair, thick eyelashes, hazel eyes, pink cheeks, and lips the color of ripe pomegranate.

Mariam felt like the baby was looking at her too.
