One Sunday in September, Laila is trying to put Zalmai, who has a cold, down for a nap when Tariq suddenly rushes into their house.

"Did you hear?" he says, breathing hard. "They killed him. Ahmad Shah Massoud. He's dead." "What?" Laila asks. Tariq tells her what he knows from the doorway.

"They say he gave an interview to two journalists who said they were Belgians but from Morocco. While they were talking, a bomb hidden in the video camera went off.

It killed Massoud and one of the journalists. They shot the other one when he tried to run.

Now people think the journalists were probably Al Qaeda members." Laila remembers the poster of Ahmad Shah Massoud that her mom had put on her bedroom wall. Massoud was leaning forward, one eyebrow raised, looking like he was listening carefully.

Laila remembers how happy her mom was when Massoud said a prayer at her sons' burial, and how she told everyone about it. Even when war started between his group and others, her mom didn’t blame him. "He’s a good man," she used to say.

He wants peace. He wants to rebuild Afghanistan. But they won’t let him. They just won’t let him. For her mom, even after everything went wrong and Kabul was destroyed, Massoud was still the Lion of Panjshir.

Laila is not as forgiving. Massoud’s violent death doesn’t make her happy, but she can’t forget the neighborhoods destroyed while he was in charge, the bodies pulled from the rubble, and the hands and feet of children found on rooftops or in trees after their funerals. She also clearly remembers her mom’s face just before a rocket hit and, even though she tries to forget, her dad’s headless body falling nearby, the picture on his T-shirt showing a bridge tower through the fog and blood.

"There will be a funeral," Tariq says. "I’m sure of it. Probably in Rawalpindi.

It’ll be huge." Zalmai, who was almost asleep, now sits up, rubbing his eyes with his little fists.

Two days later, they are cleaning a room when they hear loud noises. Tariq drops the mop and rushes out. Laila follows him.

The noise is coming from the hotel lobby. There is a lounge area to the right of the front desk, with some chairs and two beige couches. In the corner, facing the couches, is a TV. Sayeed, the hotel worker, and some guests are all gathered in front of it.

Laila and Tariq work their way through the crowd.
