There was a time when her parents didn’t sleep in separate rooms. Laila wished she had been there for those times.

Mammy’s story about the proposal always led to talks about finding matches. When Afghanistan got free from the Soviets and the boys came back home, they would need brides. So, one by one, the women showed neighborhood girls who might be good matches for Ahmad and Noor. Laila always felt left out when they talked about her brothers, like they were talking about a movie she hadn’t seen. She was only two years old when Ahmad and Noor left Kabul to join Commander Ahmad Shah Massoud’s forces and fight. Laila barely remembered them. She only remembered Ahmad’s shiny allah necklace and a patch of black hair on Noor’s ear.

“What about Azita?” “The rugmaker’s daughter?” Mammy said, pretending to be shocked.

“She has a thicker mustache than Hakim!” “There’s Anahita. We hear she’s top in her class at Zarghoona.” “Have you seen her teeth? Like tombstones. She’s hiding a graveyard behind those lips.” “How about the Wahidi sisters?” “Those two dwarfs? No, no, no. Not for my sons. Not for my sultans. They deserve better.” As they talked, Laila’s mind wandered, and as always, she thought about Tariq.

Mammy had closed the yellowish curtains. The room smelled like sleep, dirty clothes, sweat, perfume, and leftover food from last night. Laila waited for her eyes to get used to the dark before she walked across the room. Even then, her feet got caught on clothes on the floor.

Laila opened the curtains. At the foot of the bed was an old metal folding chair.

She sat on the chair and looked at the still, covered shape that was her mother.

The walls in Mammy’s room were covered with pictures of Ahmad and Noor. Everywhere Laila looked, two strangers smiled back. Here was Noor riding a tricycle. There was Ahmad praying beside a sundial Babi made when he was twelve. And there were her brothers, sitting back to back under the old pear tree in the yard.

Under Mammy’s bed, Laila saw the corner of Ahmad’s shoebox sticking out.
