Tajiks have always felt left out, Babi had said. Pashiun kings ruled this country for almost two hundred and fifty years, Laila, and Tajiks only for nine months, back in 1929.

And you, Laila asked, do you feel left out, Babi?

Babi wiped his glasses with the edge of his shirt. To me, it's nonsense and very dangerous nonsense, all this talk about I'm Tajik and you're Pashiun and he's Hazara and she's Uzbek. We're all Afghans, and that's all that should matter. But when one group rules over the others for so long… There is hate. Rivalry. There is. There always has been.

Maybe so. But Laila never felt that way in Tariq's house, where these things never even came up.

Her time with Tariq's family always felt natural to Laila, easy, without any problems because of tribe or language, or the personal fights and hates that filled the air at her own home.

"How about a game of cards?" Tariq said.

"Yes, go upstairs," his mother said, waving away her husband's smoke. "I'll start the shorwa." They lay on their stomachs in the middle of Tariq's room and took turns dealing cards for panjpar. Moving his foot back and forth, Tariq told her about his trip. The peach trees he helped plant with his uncle. A garden snake he caught.

This room was where Laila and Tariq did their homework, built card towers, and drew funny pictures of each other. If it rained, they leaned on the windowsill, drinking warm, fizzy orange Fanta, and watched the big rain drops slide down the glass.

"Okay, here’s one," Laila said, shuffling. "What goes around the world but stays in a corner?" "Wait." Tariq pushed himself up and swung his artificial left leg around. Wincing, he lay on his side, leaning on his elbow. "Hand me that pillow." He put it under his leg. "There. That’s better." Laila remembered the first time he showed her his stump. She was six. With one finger, she poked the tight, shiny skin just below his left knee. Her finger found little hard bumps there, and Tariq told her they were bits of bone that sometimes grow after an amputation. She asked if his stump hurt, and he said it got sore at the end of the day, when it swelled and didn’t fit the prosthetic like it should, like a finger in a thimble. And sometimes it gets rubbed. Especially when it’s hot. Then he gets rashes and blisters, but his mother has creams that help. It’s not so bad.

Laila started crying.

"What are you crying for?"
