Laila is planning to plant some flowers on the south wall as soon as it is rebuilt. There is a new swing set, new monkey bars, and a jungle gym.

Laila walks back inside through the screen door.

They have painted both the outside and inside of the orphanage. Tariq and Zaman fixed all the roof leaks, patched the walls, replaced the windows, and put carpet in the rooms where the children sleep and play. Last winter, Laila bought some beds for the kids, along with pillows and warm wool blankets. She also had cast iron stoves put in for the cold months.

A newspaper in Kabul, called Anis, ran a story last month about the orphanage’s renovation. They took a photo of Zaman, Tariq, Laila, and one of the workers standing behind the children. When Laila saw the article, she thought about her childhood friends Giti and Hasina. Hasina used to say, “By the time we're twenty, Giti and I will have pushed out four or five kids each. But you, Laila, you’ll make us two dummies proud.”

“You’re going to be somebody. One day, I’ll pick up a newspaper and see your picture on the front page.” The photo wasn’t on the front page, but it was there, just like Hasina said.

Laila turns and walks down the same hallway where, two years ago, she and Mariam brought Aziza to Zaman. She still remembers how they had to pull Aziza’s fingers away from her wrist. She remembers running down this hallway, trying not to scream, with Mariam calling after her and Aziza crying in fear. Now, the hallway walls are covered with posters of dinosaurs, cartoon characters, the Buddhas of Bamiyan, and drawings by the orphans. Many of the drawings show tanks crushing huts, men holding AK-47s, refugee tents, and scenes of war.

Laila turns a corner and sees the children waiting outside the classroom. She notices their scarves, shaved heads covered by skullcaps, their small, thin bodies, and the simple beauty of their clothes.

When the children see Laila, they run to her as fast as they can. They surround her, shouting greetings in high-pitched voices, patting and grabbing her, trying to climb into her arms. Little hands reach out, asking for her attention. Some of them call her Mother. Laila doesn’t correct them.

This morning, it takes Laila some time to calm the children down, get them to line up properly, and lead them into the classroom.

Tariq and Zaman built the classroom by knocking down the wall between two rooms. The floor is still cracked and has missing tiles. For now, it is covered with tarpaulin, but Tariq promised to put in new tiles and carpet soon.

Above the classroom door, there is a rectangular board that Zaman sanded and painted in shiny white.
