"Tomorrow is Friday," Rasheed said. "What do you say I show you around?" "Around Kabul?" "No. Calcutta." Mariam blinked.
 
 "It's a joke. Of course Kabul. Where else?" He reached into the brown paper bag. "But first, something I have to tell you." He fished a sky blue burqa from the bag. The yards of pleated cloth spilled over his knees when he lifted it. He rolled up the burqa, looked at Mariam.
 
 "I have customers, Mariam, men, who bring their wives to my shop. The women come uncovered, they talk to me directly, look me in the eye without shame. They wear makeup and skirts that show their knees. Sometimes they even put their feet in front of me, the women do, for measurements, and their husbands stand there and watch. They allow it.
 
 They think nothing of a stranger touching their wives' bare feet! They think they're being modern men, intellectuals, on account of their education, I suppose. They don't see that they're spoiling their own nang and namoos, their honor and pride." He shook his head.
 
 "Mostly, they live in the richer parts of Kabul. I'll take you there. You'll see. But they're here too, Mariam, in this very neighborhood, these soft men. There's a teacher living down the street, Hakim is his name, and I see his wife Fariba all the time walking the streets alone with nothing on her head but a scarf. It embarrasses me, frankly, to see a man who's lost control of his wife." He fixed Mariam with a hard glare.
 
 "But I'm a different breed of man, Mariam. Where I come from, one wrong look, one improper word, and blood is spilled. Where I come from, a woman's face is her husband's business only. I want you to remember that. Do you understand?" Mariam nodded. When he extended the bag to her, she took it.
 
 The earlier pleasure over his approval of her cooking had evaporated. In its stead, a sensation of shrinking. This man's will felt to Mariam as imposing and immovable as the Safid koh mountains looming over Gul Daman.
 
 Rasheed passed the paper bag to her. "We have an understanding, then. Now, let me have some more of that daal." 47 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS 11.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
