Laila sat across from Abdul Sharif. He was thin, with a small head and a big nose covered in scars. His short brown hair stuck up like needles on a pincushion.

"You have to forgive me, hamshira," he said, fixing his loose collar and wiping his forehead with a handkerchief. "I’m still not feeling well. Five more days of these… what are they called… sulfa pills." Laila moved so her good ear was closest to him.

"Were you friends with my parents?" she asked. "No, no," Abdul Sharif said quickly. "Sorry." He raised a finger and took a long sip of water that Mariam had put in front of him.

"I guess I should start from the beginning." He wiped his lips and forehead again. "I’m a businessman. I own clothing stores, mostly men’s clothes like chapans, hats, tumbans, suits, and ties. I had two stores here in Kabul, in Taimani and Shar-e-Nau, but I just sold them. I also have two in Pakistan, in Peshawar. That’s where my warehouse is. So, I travel a lot between the two places. These days," he shook his head and laughed softly, "traveling is quite an adventure.

"I was in Peshawar recently for business, checking orders and stock. I also went to see my family. We have three daughters, alhamdulellah. I moved my wife and kids to Peshawar after the Mujahideen started fighting each other. I don’t want their names added to the shaheed list. And honestly, I don’t want mine there either. I hope to join them soon, inshallah.

"I was supposed to be back in Kabul the Wednesday before last. But, bad luck, I got sick. I won’t bore you with details, hamshira, but when I went to do my private business, it felt like passing broken glass. I wouldn’t wish that pain even on Hekmatyar. My wife, Nadia jan, God bless her, begged me to see a doctor. But I thought I could fix it with aspirin and lots of water. Nadia jan kept insisting, but I kept saying no. You know the saying: a stubborn donkey needs a stubborn driver. This time, the donkey won. That was me." He drank the rest of his water and handed the glass to Mariam. "If it’s not too much trouble." Mariam took the glass to refill it.

"I really should have listened to her. She’s always been the sensible one, God bless her. By the time I got to the hospital, I had a high fever and was shaking like a tree in the wind. I could barely stand. The doctor said I had blood poisoning. She said if I had waited two or three more days, my wife would have become a widow.

"They put me in a special unit for really sick people, I guess. Oh, iashakor." He took the glass from Mariam and pulled a big white pill from his coat pocket. "This big." Laila watched him swallow the pill. She noticed her breathing got faster and her legs felt heavy, like weights were tied to them.
