"I promise you that." Laila nodded.

"All right?" He smiled kindly. "But don't cry, hamshira. Don’t let her see you cry." Laila wiped her eyes again. "God bless you," she said softly. "God bless you, brother."

But when it was time to say goodbye, everything happened just like Laila feared.

Aziza freaked out.

All the way home, leaning on Mariam, Laila heard Aziza’s loud crying. In her mind, she saw Zaman’s rough hands grab Aziza’s arms; she saw him pull gently at first, then harder, then with force to get Aziza away from her. She saw Aziza kicking in Zaman’s arms as he quickly turned the corner, and heard Aziza screaming like she was disappearing from the world. Laila saw herself running down the hall, head down, a scream building in her throat.

"I smell her," she told Mariam at home. Her eyes looked past Mariam’s shoulder, past the yard and walls, to the mountains, brown like old spit. "I smell her sleep smell. Do you? Do you smell it?"

"Oh, Laila jo," said Mariam. "Don’t. What good does this do? What good?"

At first, Rasheed went along with Laila, Mariam, and Zalmai going to the orphanage, but he made sure she saw his angry looks and heard him complain about how hard it was for him. He said his legs, back, and feet hurt from walking to and from the orphanage. He wanted her to know how annoyed he was.

"I'm not a young man anymore," he said. "Not that you care. You’d push me until I’m worn out if you could. But you don’t, Laila. You don’t get your way."

They split up two blocks from the orphanage, and he never gave them more than fifteen minutes. "If you’re a minute late," he said, "I start walking. I mean it." Laila had to beg him to let her spend a little more time with Aziza. She did it for herself, for Mariam who was very sad about Aziza being gone but kept her pain quiet, and for Zalmai, who asked for his sister every day and sometimes cried so hard he couldn’t stop.

Sometimes, on the way to the orphanage, Rasheed would stop and complain his leg hurt. Then he’d suddenly start walking home fast and steady, without even limping. Or he’d click his tongue and say, "It’s my lungs, Laila. I’m out of breath."
