Almost two days you made me lay on that cold, hard floor. I didn't eat or sleep, all I did was push and pray that you would come out." "I'm sorry, Nana." "I cut the cord between us myself. That's why I had a knife." "I'm sorry." Nana always gave a slow, burdened smile here, one of lingering recrimination or reluctant forgiveness, Mariam could never tell It did not occur to young Mariam to ponder the unfairness of apologizing for the manner of her own birth.
 
 By the time it did occur to her, around the time she turned ten, Mariam no longer believed this story of her birth. She believed Jalil’s version, that though he'd been away he'd arranged for Nana to be taken to a hospital in Herat where she had been tended to by a doctor. She had lain on a clean, proper bed in a well lit room. Jalil shook his head with sadness when Mariam told him about the knife.
 
 Mariam also came to doubt that she had made her mother suffer for two full days.
 
 "They told me it was all over within under an hour," Jalil said. "You were a good daughter, Mariam jo. Even in birth you were a good daughter." "He wasn't even there!" Nana spat. "He was in Takht-e-Safar, horseback riding with his precious friends." When they informed him that he had a new daughter, Nana said, Jalil had shrugged, kept brushing his horse's mane, and stayed in Takht-e-Safar another two weeks.
 
 "The truth is, he didn't even hold you until you were a month old. And then only to look down once, comment on your longish face, and hand you back to me." Mariam came to disbelieve this part of the story as well. Yes, Jalil admitted, he had been horseback riding in Takht-e-Safar, but, when they gave him the news, he had not shrugged.
 
 He had hopped on the saddle and ridden back to Herat. He had bounced her in his arms, run his thumb over her flaky eyebrows, and hummed a lullaby. Mariam did not picture Jalil saying that her face was long, though it was true that it was long.
 
 Nana said she was the one who'd picked the name Mariam because it had been the name of her mother. Jalil said he chose the name because Mariam, the tuberose, was a lovely flower.
 
 "Your favorite?" Mariam asked.
 
 "Well, one of," he said and smiled.
 
 10 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS 3.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
