It was kind to its workers, and its people were all equal. Everyone in the Soviet Union was happy and friendly, unlike America, where crime made people afraid to leave their homes.
 
 And everyone in Afghanistan would be happy too, she said, once the antiprogressives, the backward bandits, were defeated.
 
 "That's why our Soviet comrades came here in 1979. To lend their neighbor a hand. To help us defeat these brutes who want our country to be a backward, primitive nation. And you must lend your own hand, children. You must report anyone who might know about these rebels. It's your duty. You must listen, then report. Even if it's your parents, your uncles or aunts. Because none of them loves you as much as your country does. Your country comes first, remember! I will be proud of you, and so will your country." On the wall behind Khala Rangmaal's desk was a map of the Soviet Union, a map of Afghanistan, and a framed photo of the latest communist president, Najibullah, who, Babi said, had once been the head of the dreaded KHAD, the Afghan secret police. There were other photos too, mainly of young Soviet soldiers shaking hands with peasants, planting apple saplings, building homes, always smiling genially.
 
 "Well," Khala Rangmaal said now, "have I disturbed your daydreaming, Inqilabi Girl?" This was her nickname for Laila, Revolutionary Girl, because she'd been born the night of the April coup of 1978 except Khala Rangmaal became angry if anyone in her class used the word coup. What had happened, she insisted, was an inqilab, a revolution, an uprising of the working people against inequality. Jihad was another forbidden word. According to her, there wasn't even a war out there in the provinces, just skirmishes against troublemakers stirred by people she called foreign provocateurs. And certainly no one, no one, dared repeat in her presence the rising rumors that, after eight years of fighting, the Soviets were losing this war. Particularly now that the American president, Reagan, had started shipping the Mujahideen Stinger Missiles to down the Soviet helicopters, now that Muslims from all over the world were joining the cause: Egyptians, Pakistanis, even wealthy Saudis, who left their millions behind and came to Afghanistan to fight the jihad.
 
 "Bucharest. Havana," Laila managed.
 
 "And are those countries our friends or not?" "They are, moolim sahib. They are friendly countries." Khala Rangmaal gave a curt nod.
 
 * * * When school let out. Mammy again didn't show up like she was supposed to. Laila ended up walking home with two of her classmates, Giti and Hasina.
 
 Giti was a tightly wound, bony little girl who wore her hair in twin ponytails held by elastic bands. She was always scowling, and walking with her books pressed to her chest, like a shield. Hasina was twelve, three years older than Laila and Giti, but had failed third 71 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS grade once and fourth grade twice.
 

 
(Simplified)
 
