Maybe tomorrow I'll feel better, or the day after. We'll see." He never even pretended to cough. Often, when he turned around and walked home, he lit a cigarette.

Laila had to follow him home, feeling helpless, shaking with anger and frustration.

Then one day he told Laila he wouldn’t take her anymore. "I’m too tired from walking the streets all day," he said, "looking for work." "Then I’ll go by myself," Laila said. "You can’t stop me, Rasheed. Do you hear me? You can hit me all you want, but I’ll keep going there." "Do what you want. But you won’t get past the Taliban. Don’t say I didn’t warn you." "I’m coming with you," Mariam said.

Laila wouldn’t let her. "You have to stay home with Zalmai. If we get stopped…I don’t want him to see." So Laila’s life became all about finding ways to see Aziza. Half the time, she didn’t even make it to the orphanage. Crossing the street, the Taliban would spot her and ask lots of questions: What’s your name? Where are you going? Why are you alone?

Where is your mahram? before sending her home. If she was lucky, they just yelled at her or gave her a kick or a shove. Other times, she got hit with wooden clubs, tree branches, short whips, slapped, or punched.

One day, a young Talib hit Laila with a radio antenna. When he was done, he hit the back of her neck and said, "If I see you again, I’ll beat you until your mother’s milk leaks out of your bones." That time, Laila went home. She lay on her stomach, feeling like a stupid, sad animal, and hissed while Mariam put wet cloths on her bleeding back and legs. But usually, Laila refused to give up. She pretended to go home, then took a different path through side streets. Sometimes she got caught, questioned, and scolded two, three, or even four times in one day. Then the whips and antennas would hit her, and she’d walk home hurt, without even seeing Aziza. Soon Laila started wearing extra layers of clothes, even when it was hot—two or three sweaters under her burqa—to protect herself from the beatings.

But for Laila, the reward was worth it if she made it past the Taliban. She could spend as much time as she wanted with Aziza. They sat in the courtyard near the swing set, with other kids and visiting moms, and talked about what Aziza had learned that week.

Aziza said Kaka Zaman made sure to teach them something every day—mostly reading and writing, but sometimes geography, history, science, or things about plants and animals.

"But we have to pull the curtains," Aziza said, "so the Taliban don’t see us." Kaka Zaman had knitting needles and balls of yarn ready, she said, just in case the Taliban came to check.
