The village of Gul Daman is a fictional place as far as I know. Those who are familiar with the city of Herat will notice that I have taken minor liberties describing the geography around it. Last, the title of this novel comes from a poem composed by Saeb-e-Tabrizi, a seventeenth century Persian poet. Those who know the original Farsi poem will doubtless note that the English translation of the line containing the title of this novel is not a literal one. But it is the generally accepted translation, by Dr. Josephine Davis, and I found it lovely. I am grateful to her.
 
 I would like to thank Qayoum Sarwar, Hekmat Sadat, Elyse Hathaway, Rosemary Stasek, Lawrence Quill, and Haleema Jazmin Quill for their assistance and support.
 
 Very special thanks to my father, Baba, for reading this manuscript, for his feedback, and, as ever, for his love and support. And to my mother, whose selfless, gentle spirit permeates this tale. You are my reason, Mother jo. My thanks go to my in laws for their generosity and many kindnesses. To the rest of my wonderful family, I remain indebted and grateful to each and every one of you.
 
 I wish to thank my agent, Elaine Koster, for always, always believing, Jody Hotchkiss (Onward!), David Grossman, Helen Heller, and the tireless Chandler Crawford. I am grateful and indebted to every single person at Riverhead Books. In particular, I want to thank Susan Petersen Kennedy and Geoffrey Kloske for their faith in this story. My heartfelt thanks also go to Marilyn Ducksworth, Mih Ho Cha, Catharine Lynch, Craig D.
 
 Burke, Leslie Schwartz, Honi Werner, and Wendy Pearl. Special thanks to my sharp eyed copy editor, Tony Davis, who misses nothing, and, lastly, to my talented editor, Sarah McGrath, for her patience, foresight, and guidance.
 
 Finally, thank you, Roya. For reading this story, again and again, for weathering my minor crises of confidence (and a couple of major ones), for never doubting. This book would not be without you. I love you.
 
 DISCLAIMER DONT DISTRIBUTE THIS PRIVATE BACKUP EBOOK IF YOU DONT HAVE ORIGINAL BOOKS SUPPORT THE AUTHOR FOR BUYING THEIR REAL BOOK FROM WWW.AMAZON.COM OR BOOKSTORE NEAR YOUR TOWN 声明 仅供学习使用。如果您没有购买原版，请不要随意传播、复制这本电子书。 支持作者请您购买正版。 您可以到亚马逊官方网站和您所在地的书店购买本书。 253
 

 
(Simplified)
 
