Laila

Aziza packed her things in a paper bag: her flowered shirt, one pair of socks, mismatched wool gloves, an old pumpkin-colored blanket with stars and comets, a broken plastic cup, a banana, and her dice. It was a cool morning in April 2001, just before Laila’s twenty-third birthday. The sky was a light gray, and cold wind kept shaking the screen door.

A few days earlier, Laila heard that Ahmad Shah Massoud had gone to France and talked to the European Parliament. Massoud was back in his home in the north, leading the Northern Alliance, the only group still fighting the Taliban. In Europe, Massoud warned the West about terrorist camps in Afghanistan and begged the U.S. to help fight the Taliban.

He said, “If President Bush doesn’t help us, these terrorists will hurt the U.S. and Europe soon.” A month before, Laila learned the Taliban had planted TNT in the cracks of the giant Buddhas in Bamiyan and blew them up. They called the statues idols and sinful. People all over the world, from the U.S. to China, begged the Taliban not to destroy these important Afghan treasures. But the Taliban did it anyway. They shouted “Allah u akbar” with each explosion and cheered when the statues broke apart.

Laila remembered being on top of the bigger Buddha with Babi and Tariq in 1987. A breeze was blowing, and they watched a hawk flying over the valley. But when she heard the statues were destroyed, Laila didn’t feel much. How could she care about statues when her own life felt broken?

Until Rasheed told her it was time to leave, Laila sat on the living room floor in a corner. She didn’t speak and looked blank, her messy hair hanging around her face. No matter how hard she tried, she felt like she couldn’t breathe enough air.

* * *

On the way to Karteh Seh, Zalmai bounced in Rasheed’s arms, and Aziza held Mariam’s hand as she walked fast beside her. The wind blew Aziza’s dirty scarf and made the bottom of her dress move. Aziza looked sad, like she was starting to realize she was being tricked. Laila didn’t have the strength to tell her the truth. She told Aziza she was going to a special school where kids ate and slept and didn’t come home after class.

Aziza kept asking the same questions she had been asking for days. Did the students sleep in different rooms or all in one big room? Would she make friends? Was Laila sure the teachers would be kind? And more than once, she asked, “How long do I have to stay?”
