She told herself he wasn’t finished yet, that he hadn’t told her anything important. But he would keep talking soon, and she wanted to resist the urge to get up and leave before hearing things she didn’t want to hear.

Abdul Sharif put his glass down on the table.

“That’s where I met your friend, Mohammad Tariq Walizai.” Laila’s heart started beating faster. Tariq in a hospital? In a special unit? For really sick people?

She swallowed hard and shifted in her chair. She had to be strong. If she wasn’t, she thought she might lose control. She tried not to think about hospitals or special units, and instead remembered how she hadn’t heard Tariq’s full name since they took a Farsi class years ago. The teacher would call out his full name like that—Mohammad Tariq Walizai—and it always sounded so serious to her back then.

Abdul Sharif started talking again, tapping his chest like it was hard to say. “I heard what happened to him from one of the nurses. I’ve spent a lot of time in Peshawar, so I learned some Urdu. From what I understood, your friend was in a truck with twenty-three refugees going to Peshawar. Near the border, they got caught in crossfire. A rocket hit the truck—probably by accident, but you never know with these things. Only six people survived and all were taken to the same unit. Three died within a day. Two were sisters who got better and left.

Your friend, Mr. Walizai, was the last one there. He’d been there almost three weeks when I arrived.” So he was alive. But how badly was he hurt? Laila wondered quickly. How badly?

Badly enough to be in a special unit, it seemed. Laila realized she was sweating and her face felt hot. She tried to think of something nice, like the trip to Bamiyan to see the Buddhas with Tariq and Babi. But instead, she saw Tariq’s parents in her mind: his mother trapped in the truck, upside down, screaming his name through smoke, her arms and chest burning, her wig melting. Laila had to take quick, deep breaths.

“He was in the bed next to mine. There were no walls, just a curtain between us. So I could see him well.” Abdul Sharif suddenly played with his wedding ring and spoke more slowly.

“Your friend was badly, very badly hurt, you understand. There were rubber tubes everywhere. At first,” he cleared his throat, “I thought he lost both legs in the attack, but a nurse said no, only the right leg. The left leg was from an old injury. He had internal injuries too. They did three operations already. Took out parts of his intestines, I don’t remember what else. And he was burned badly. That’s all I’ll say. I’m sure you already have enough nightmares, hamshira. No need for me to add more.” 

Tariq didn’t have legs anymore. He was just a body with two stumps. Laila thought she might fall down. With a lot of effort, she forced her mind to leave that room, go out the window, over the street, over the city with its flat roofs and markets, its narrow streets like sandcastles.

“He was on strong medicine most of the time. For the pain, you know. But sometimes, when the drugs wore off, he was clear. In pain but clear. I would talk to him from my bed then.”
