In Khair Khana, Shar-e-Nau, Karteh Parwan, Wazir Akbar Khan, and Taimani, red Toyota trucks drove through the streets.

Armed men with beards and black turbans sat in the back of the trucks. From each truck, loudspeakers played announcements, first in Farsi, then in Pashto. The same message came from loudspeakers on mosques and on the radio, now called the Voice of Short 'a. Flyers with the message were thrown into the streets. Mariam found one in the yard.

Our country is now called the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. These are the rules you must follow: Everyone must pray five times a day. If it is prayer time and you are doing something else, you will be beaten.

All men must grow beards. The beard must be at least one fist long under the chin. If not, you will be beaten.

All boys must wear turbans. Boys in grades one to six will wear black turbans, older boys will wear white. All boys must wear Islamic clothes with buttoned shirt collars.

Singing is not allowed.

Dancing is not allowed.

Playing cards, chess, gambling, and flying kites are not allowed.

Writing books, watching movies, and painting pictures are not allowed.

If you keep parakeets, you will be beaten and your birds will be killed.

If you steal, your hand will be cut off at the wrist. If you steal again, your foot will be cut off.

If you are not Muslim, do not worship where Muslims can see you. If you do, you will be beaten and put in jail. If you try to make a Muslim change their religion, you will be executed.

Women, listen carefully: You must stay inside your homes all the time. It is not okay for women to walk around alone. If you go outside, a male relative must go with you. If you are caught alone, you will be beaten and sent home.

You must never show your face. You must wear a burqa outside. If you don’t, you will be badly beaten.

Makeup is not allowed.

Jewelry is not allowed.

You cannot wear nice clothes.

You cannot talk unless someone talks to you first.

You cannot look men in the eyes.

You cannot laugh in public. If you do, you will be beaten.

You cannot paint your nails. If you do, you will lose a finger.

Girls are not allowed to go to school. All girls’ schools will be closed right away.

Women cannot work.

If you are caught having an affair, you will be stoned to death. Listen carefully. Obey. Allahu akbar.

Rasheed turned off the radio.
