We have ended decades of tyranny. Power is now in the hands of the masses and freedom loving people. A glorious new era in the history of our country is afoot. A new Afghanistan is born. We assure you that you have nothing to fear, fellow Afghans. The new regime will maintain the utmost respect for principles, both Islamic and democratic. This is a time of rejoicing and celebration." Rasheed turned off the radio.
 
 "So is this good or bad?" Mariam asked.
 
 "Bad for the rich, by the sound of it," Rasheed said. "Maybe not so bad for us." Mariam's thoughts drifted to Jalil. She wondered if the communists would go after him, then. Would they jail him? Jail his sons? Take his businesses and properties from him?
 
 "Is this warm?" Rasheed said, eyeing the rice.
 
 "I just served it from the pot." He grunted, and told her to hand him a plate.
 
 * * * Down the street, as the night lit up in sudden flashes of red and yellow, an exhausted Fariba had propped herself up on her elbows. Her hair was matted with sweat, and droplets of moisture teetered on the edge of her upper lip. At her bedside, the elderly midwife, Wajma, watched as Fariba's husband and sons passed around the infant. They were marveling at the baby's light hair, at her pink cheeks and puckered, rosebud lips, at the slits of jade green eyes moving behind her puffy lids. They smiled at each other when they heard her voice for the first time, a cry that started like the mewl of a cat and exploded into a healthy, full throated yowl. Noor said her eyes were like gemstones. Ahmad, who was the most religious member of the family, sang the azan in his baby sister's ear and blew in her face three times.
 
 "Laila it is, then?" Hakim asked, bouncing his daughter.
 
 "Laila it is," Fariba said, smiling tiredly. "Night Beauty. It's perfect." * * * Rasheed made a ball of rice with his fingers. He put it in his mouth, chewed once, then twice, before grimacing and spitting it out on the sofrah.
 
 "What's the matter?" Mariam asked, hating the apologetic tone of her voice. She could feel her pulse quickening, her skin shrinking.
 
 66 A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS "What's the matter?
 

 
(Simplified)
 
