In the mid-1990s, a professor named Clayton Christensen got a call from Andy Grove, the boss of Intel. Grove had read Christensen’s research about something called disruptive innovation and wanted him to come to California to talk about what it meant for Intel. When Christensen arrived, he explained the idea: big companies can suddenly lose their top spot because new, smaller companies start by selling cheap products. Over time, these small companies make their products better and begin to take customers from the big companies. Grove saw that Intel was facing this problem from smaller companies like AMD and Cyrix, who were making cheaper processors. Using this new idea, Grove created the Celeron processors, which were slower but cheaper, helping Intel fight back.

There’s a part of the story not many people know. During a break, Grove asked Christensen, “How do I do this?” Christensen talked about business strategy and how Grove could create a new team. But Grove interrupted him, saying, “You’re too much of a book-smart professor. I asked how to do it, but you just told me what to do. I know what I need to do, but I don’t know how to do it.” Christensen later said this difference between what to do and how to do it is really important but often ignored. It’s usually easy to figure out the plan, but the hard part is making the plan happen.

I read this story in a book called The 4 Disciplines of Execution, which explains four steps (called 4DX) that help companies put their big plans into action. What really stood out to me was that this idea of “what vs. how” also fits with my own goal of spending more time really focusing on deep work.

What I needed was help figuring out how to actually do this.

Interested by the similarities, I tried to use the 4DX steps to improve my own work habits. I was surprised at how much they helped me take real action toward working deeply. Even though these ideas were made for big companies, they seem useful whenever you have something important to do while dealing with lots of distractions. So, in the sections that follow, I’ll explain the four steps of 4DX and how I changed them to help build a habit of deep work.
