The SQL example I gave was from postgreSQL, which is a free database system used a lot in companies and especially in schools. I don’t know exactly what system Silver uses, but it probably uses some kind of SQL language like the example I showed.

Deep Work Helps You Learn Hard Things Fast. “Let your mind become a lens” is a quote from page 95 of a book called The Intellectual Life by Antonin-Dalmace Sertillanges, translated by Mary Ryan.

“The development and deepening of the mind” is from the same book on page 13.

Information about deliberate practice comes mostly from an important paper by Ericsson, Krampe, and Tesch-Römer called “The Role of Deliberate Practice in the Acquisition of Expert Performance,” published in 1993.

“We deny that these differences [between expert performers and normal adults] are unchangeable” is from that same paper on page 13.

“Men of genius themselves” is from page 95 of Sertillanges’ The Intellectual Life.

“Diffused attention is almost the opposite of the focused attention needed for deliberate practice” is from page 368 of Ericsson, Krampe, and Tesch-Römer’s paper. More info about how the brain works in expert performance is in the book The Talent Code by Daniel Coyle.

Coyle also has a cool slideshow about myelination (how the brain gets better at skills) on his website called “Want to Be a Superstar Athlete? Build More Myelin.”

For more about deliberate practice, two good books are:  
• Talent Is Overrated by Geoffrey Colvin  
• The Talent Code by Daniel Coyle

Deep Work Also Helps You Work Like a Pro. You can learn more about Adam Grant, his achievements, and his long resume on his school website.

Adam Grant wrote a book called Give and Take about how helping others leads to success.

There’s also an article about Adam Grant in the New York Times Magazine called “The Saintly Way to Succeed.”

Cal Newport wrote a book called How to Become a Straight-A Student that shares smart study tips from real college students.

Sophie Leroy wrote about why it’s hard to focus when switching between tasks in a paper called “Why Is It So Hard to Do My Work?” published in 2009.

What About Jack Dorsey?
