Your brain can remember a lot of detailed information quickly—if you store it the right way. Ron White’s card memorization method is based on this idea.

First, to get ready for memorizing a lot, White says you should picture walking through five rooms in your house. Maybe you come in the front door, walk down the hallway, then go into the bathroom, then the guest bedroom, then the kitchen, and finally down to the basement. In each room, try to clearly see what’s there.

Once you can easily remember this walk, pick ten big items in each room to remember. Big things are easier to remember, like a desk instead of a pencil. Decide the order you will look at these items in each room. For example, in the hallway, you might look at the doormat first, then the shoes by the mat, then the bench above the shoes, and so on. That gives you fifty items total, so add two more items outside, like in your backyard, to make fifty-two items. You’ll need all fifty-two for the cards in a deck.

Keep practicing this walk and looking at the items in order. This kind of memorizing, using pictures of places and things you know well, is much easier than just trying to remember by repeating, like you might have done in school.

Next, you need to link each of the fifty-two cards to a person or thing that’s easy to remember. Try to pick something that makes sense with the card. For example, you might connect Donald Trump with the King of Diamonds because diamonds mean money. Practice these links until you can pull out any card and immediately think of the right image. Using clear pictures and connections makes this easier.

These two steps are done only once, and you can use them every time you memorize a new deck of cards. After that, you’re ready for the main part: memorizing the order of fifty-two cards in a mixed-up deck as fast as you can.

Start your mental walk through your house again. When you get to each item, look at the next card in the deck and imagine the person or thing for that card doing something funny or memorable near that item. For example, if the first item is the doormat and the first card is the King of Diamonds, you might picture Donald Trump wiping mud off his fancy shoes on the doormat in your hallway.
