I don’t have a strong opinion about this big philosophical argument. Instead, I’m interested in a more practical and personal idea: Our work culture is becoming more shallow (whether you think that’s good or bad), and this change is opening up a huge chance for a few people who choose to go against it and focus on doing deeper, better work. Not long ago, a bored young consultant from Virginia named Jason Benn took advantage of this chance.

There are lots of ways to find out you’re not very valuable in today’s economy. For Jason Benn, this became clear when he noticed that most of his job as a financial consultant could be done automatically with a messy Excel script.

The company that hired Benn made reports for banks that handled complicated deals.

(“It was about as interesting as it sounds,” Benn joked when I interviewed him.) Making these reports meant spending hours moving data around in Excel spreadsheets. When Benn started, it took him up to six hours to finish one report (the fastest people there could do it in about three hours). Benn didn’t like this.

“The way they taught me, the process felt slow and super manual,” Benn said. He knew Excel had something called macros that could automate tasks. Benn read about them and soon created a new spreadsheet with macros that cut the six-hour work to just pressing a button. What took a whole workday now took less than an hour.

Benn is smart. He graduated from a top college (the University of Virginia) with a degree in economics, and he had big career goals. But he quickly saw that his main skills could be replaced by an Excel macro. So he knew he had to make himself more valuable. After doing some research, Benn told his family he would quit his job as a human spreadsheet and become a computer programmer. But there was a problem: Jason Benn didn’t know how to code.

As a computer scientist, I can say it’s true: Programming is really hard. Most new programmers spend four years in college learning before their first job—and even then, the competition is really tough.

Jason Benn didn’t have that kind of time. After his Excel discovery, he quit the financial firm and moved back home to get ready for his next step. His parents liked that he had a plan, but they weren’t thrilled about him living at home for a long time.
