When I was a grad student, I shared an office down the hall from a professor who won a MacArthur “genius grant.” He got hired at MIT before he was old enough to legally drink alcohol. It was normal to see him sitting in the common area, staring at a whiteboard with a group of visiting scholars around him, all quietly staring too. This could last for hours. I’d go to lunch and come back, and they’d still be staring. This professor is hard to reach. He’s not on Twitter, and if he doesn’t know you, he probably won’t answer your email.

Last year, he published sixteen papers.

This kind of intense focus was common when I was a student. So, I ended up working hard to focus deeply too. My friends and the people who help publicize my books don’t like it, but I’ve never had a Facebook or Twitter account, or any social media besides a blog. I don’t surf the web and mostly get my news from my Washington Post newspaper and NPR. I’m also hard to reach: my author website doesn’t show my personal email, and I didn’t get my first smartphone until 2012, when my pregnant wife told me I had to have a working phone before our son was born.

But focusing deeply has helped me a lot. In the ten years after college, I published four books, earned a PhD, wrote many academic papers, and got a job as a professor at Georgetown University. I did all this while rarely working past 5 or 6 p.m. on weekdays.

I can work on a shorter schedule because I work hard to cut out shallow tasks and use my free time well. I plan my days around a few hours of deep, focused work, and do the small, less important tasks in short bursts at the edges of my day. Three to four hours a day, five days a week, of focused work can create a lot of valuable results.

Focusing deeply also helps me outside of work. Most evenings, I don’t use a computer after I get home until the next morning, except for writing blog posts after my kids go to bed. Not checking work emails or social media lets me spend real time with my wife and two sons, and I still manage to read a lot of books for a busy dad.
