At the same time, the bimodal way of working is usually used by people who need to do a lot of less serious tasks to keep going. For example, Jung needed his job as a doctor to make money and the coffee shops in Zurich to help him think. Switching between these two types of work helped him do both well.

To give a more recent example, think about Adam Grant, a professor at Wharton Business School. You might remember him from Part 1. When he was quickly moving up at Wharton, his schedule showed bimodal working. He put all his classes in one semester so he could focus on deep work the other semester. During his deep work semesters, he used the bimodal idea weekly. Once or twice a month, he would take two to four days to work without any interruptions. He would close his door, turn on an out-of-office email reply, and focus only on research. Outside of these deep work times, Grant stayed easy to reach and open to others. He had to be because his 2013 bestseller, Give and Take, says that giving your time and attention without expecting anything back is important for success.

People who use the bimodal way of deep work admire how much monastic workers get done but also see the value in doing lighter tasks. One big problem with this way of working is that even short times of deep work need flexibility, which many people feel they don’t have. If you get nervous about spending even an hour away from your email, then taking a whole day off might seem impossible. But I think bimodal working can work in more jobs than you think. For example, I talked about a study by Harvard professor Leslie Perlow. In this study, management consultants had to disconnect for one full day each week. They worried their clients would be upset, but the clients didn’t care. Like Jung, Grant, and Perlow’s group found out, people usually respect your need to be unreachable if you make these times clear and outside those times, you are easy to contact again.

The Rhythmic Way of Scheduling Deep Work In the early days of the Seinfeld show, Jerry Seinfeld was still a working comedian with a busy tour schedule.
