Chapter Two  
Deep Work Is Rare  

In 2012, Facebook showed off plans for a new headquarters designed by Frank Gehry. At the center of this building is what CEO Mark Zuckerberg called “the largest open floor plan in the world.” Over three thousand employees will work on movable furniture spread out over ten acres. Facebook isn’t the only big tech company to go for the open office style. When Jack Dorsey, who we met at the end of the last chapter, bought the old San Francisco Chronicle building for Square, he set it up so his developers work together at long shared desks. Dorsey said, “We encourage people to stay out in the open because we believe in serendipity—and people walking by each other teaching new things.”  

Another big trend in business lately is the rise of instant messaging. An article from the Times says this technology isn’t just for chatty teenagers anymore; it’s helping companies get more done and respond to customers faster. A senior product manager at IBM said, “We send 2.5 million I.M.’s within I.B.M. each day.”  

One of the newer companies in the business IM scene is Hall, a Silicon Valley start-up that helps employees go beyond just chatting and work together in real-time. A developer from San Francisco told me about working at a company that uses Hall. The most “efficient” employees set up their text editor to flash an alert when a new question or comment is posted in Hall. They can quickly switch over to Hall, type their thoughts, and then jump back to coding without missing a beat. My friend seemed really impressed by how fast they were.  

A third trend is that content creators of all kinds are encouraged to have a social media presence. The New York Times, which is known for its traditional media values, now tells its employees to tweet. This advice has been taken seriously by over eight hundred writers, editors, and photographers at the paper who now have Twitter accounts.  

**PAGE SUMMARY:** This chapter discusses how big companies like Facebook and Square are using open office spaces and instant messaging to boost teamwork and productivity. It also highlights the importance of social media for content creators, even in traditional media like The New York Times.