Workers today are facing big changes because of technology. Robots and voice recognition are taking over many simple jobs. But other tech, like data visualization and analytics, is making jobs that require thinking and working with data even more valuable. Basically, if you can figure out how to work with smart machines, you’re going to do really well. Tyler Cowen puts it simply: “The key question will be: are you good at working with intelligent machines or not?”

Nate Silver is a great example of someone who excels in this new world. He’s really good at taking data, running it through complex simulations, and getting useful results. For him, smart machines are not a problem; they actually help him succeed.

Then there are the “superstars” like David Heinemeier Hansson, who are also expected to do well in this new economy. Thanks to fast internet and tools like email and video calls, companies don’t need to hire full-time workers anymore. Instead, they can hire top programmers like Hansson just for the time they need to finish a project. This way, companies get better results for less money, and Hansson can work with more clients and earn more.

It doesn’t matter if Hansson is working from Spain while the company is in Iowa. Modern communication makes it easy to work together no matter where you are. But this is tough for local programmers in Iowa who need steady jobs. This trend is happening in many fields where remote work is possible, like consulting, marketing, writing, and design. When talent can be found anywhere, the best workers thrive while others struggle.

Economist Sherwin Rosen studied this idea back in 1981. He explained that in “winner-take-all” markets, talent is unique and can’t easily be replaced. For example, listening to a bunch of average singers doesn’t compare to hearing one amazing performance.

**PAGE SUMMARY:** Technology is changing the job market, favoring those who can work with smart machines and remote talent. Superstars like top programmers can thrive, while local workers may struggle. This creates a divide where only the best succeed in a competitive environment.