In 2013, I learned a lot about how people decide to use the Internet, especially Facebook. I wrote an article explaining why I never joined Facebook. Even though I wasn’t trying to criticize anyone, many readers felt defensive and started to explain why they liked using Facebook. Here are some reasons they gave:

“Facebook was fun for me at first. I could see what my friends were doing and share funny pictures and comments.”  
“When I joined, I was just curious. I found a group for short stories, and I got better at writing and made some good friends there.”  
“I use Facebook because a lot of my high school friends are on it.”

What I noticed about these responses is that they seem pretty small. For example, the first person might enjoy Facebook, but I think they could find other ways to have fun even if Facebook didn’t exist. It’s just one more option for entertainment among many others.

Another person mentioned making friends in a writing group. While I believe those friendships are real, they probably aren’t very deep since they’re just based on chatting online. There’s nothing wrong with these kinds of friendships, but they probably aren’t the main part of that person’s social life. The same goes for the person who reconnected with high school friends; it’s nice, but it’s not the most important part of their happiness or social life.

I’m not saying these benefits aren’t real or valuable. They just seem pretty minor compared to other things, like using the Internet or email, where the reasons for using them are much stronger. You might think that any little benefit is worth it, and I call that the “any-benefit” mindset, where any small advantage is seen as enough to keep using a service.

**PAGE SUMMARY:** The passage discusses how people justify using Facebook, highlighting that their reasons are often minor and not essential to their happiness. It contrasts these reasons with stronger justifications for using the Internet or email, introducing the idea of the "any-benefit" mindset.