Try this experiment no more than once a week at first. This way, you can train your brain to focus hard but also give it time to chill out in between. Once you feel good about switching your focus for finishing tasks faster, you can do these Roosevelt dashes more often. Just remember to set deadlines that are challenging but doable. You should be able to finish just in time or really close, but it should take a lot of focus.

The main reason for this method is simple. Deep work needs way more focus than most people are used to. Roosevelt dashes use fake deadlines to help you get better at focusing, kind of like training your brain's attention skills. Plus, these dashes don’t allow for distractions. If you want to meet your deadlines, you can’t get sidetracked. So, every time you finish a dash, you might feel bored and want to do something more exciting, but you hold back. As mentioned before, the more you practice ignoring those urges, the easier it gets.

After a few months of using this method, you’ll probably see a big change in how you focus. You’ll reach levels of intensity that are stronger than anything you’ve felt before. And if you’re like a young Roosevelt, you can use the extra time you have for fun stuff, like trying to impress the picky members of the Nuttall Ornithological Club.

During the two years I worked at MIT, my wife and I lived in a small but nice apartment in Beacon Hill. Even though I worked in Cambridge, it was only a mile away from Boston, right across the Charles River. I wanted to stay fit during the cold New England winter, so I decided to walk to work as much as I could. 

My routine was to walk to campus in the morning, crossing the Longfellow Bridge no matter the weather (which was annoying since the city was slow to clear the sidewalks after snowstorms). Around lunchtime, I would change into my running clothes and run back home on a longer route along the river.

**PAGE SUMMARY:** This passage talks about using Roosevelt dashes to improve focus by setting challenging deadlines and resisting distractions. It also shares a personal story about staying fit while commuting between Boston and Cambridge.