Workers are not slacking off. They say they are busier than ever. So, what’s going on? A lot of it has to do with another kind of effort that is the opposite of deep work:

Shallow Work: This includes simple tasks that don’t require much thinking, often done while getting distracted. These tasks usually don’t create much new value and are easy to do over and over again. Nowadays, knowledge workers are replacing deep work with shallow work. They spend a lot of time sending and receiving emails, like busy routers, taking breaks for quick distractions. Bigger tasks that need deep thinking, like creating a new business plan or writing an important application, get broken up into short, distracted bursts that don’t turn out well.

To make things worse, there’s growing evidence that this shift to shallow work is hard to change back. If you spend too much time in a distracted state, it can actually lower your ability to do deep work. Journalist Nicholas Carr said in a famous 2008 article that the Internet is making it harder for him to concentrate and think deeply. He’s not alone in feeling this way. Carr even wrote a book called The Shallows, which was a finalist for a big award. To write it, he had to go to a cabin and cut himself off from distractions.

The idea that online tools are pushing our work from deep to shallow isn’t new. The Shallows was just the first of many recent books looking at how the Internet affects our brains and work habits. Other books like William Powers’s Hamlet’s BlackBerry, John Freeman’s The Tyranny of E-mail, and Alex Soojung-Kin Pang’s The Distraction Addiction all agree that these tools are taking us away from work that needs our full attention and are making it harder for us to stay focused.

Since there’s already a lot of evidence about this, I won’t spend more time in this book trying to prove it. I hope we can agree that online tools hurt deep work. I’ll also skip big discussions about what this change means for society, since those arguments can get really complicated. Some people, like Jaron Lanier and John Freeman, think these tools are harming society, while others, like Clive Thompson, believe they are changing society for the better. For example, Google might make us forget things, but we don’t need to remember as much because we can search for anything we want at any time.

**PAGE SUMMARY:** Workers feel busy but are often caught up in shallow tasks that distract them from deep work. This shift is hard to reverse and affects our ability to concentrate. Many experts agree that online tools are harming our focus and work quality.