The story is well-known in the business consulting world. In the mid-1990s, a Harvard Business School professor named Clayton Christensen got a call from Andy Grove, the CEO of Intel. Grove had read Christensen’s research about disruptive innovation and wanted him to come to California to talk about how it could affect Intel. When Christensen arrived, he explained how big companies can be surprised when small startups, starting with cheap products, slowly improve and start taking away customers from the high-end market. Grove realized that Intel was at risk from cheaper processors made by new companies like AMD and Cyrix. With this new understanding, Grove created a strategy that led to the Celeron family of processors, which helped Intel compete against these lower-end threats.

But there’s another part of this story that isn’t as well-known. During a break in their meeting, Grove asked Christensen, “How do I do this?” Christensen started talking about business strategy and how Grove could set up a new business unit. But Grove interrupted him, saying, “You are such a naïve academic. I asked you how to do it, and you told me what I should do. I know what I need to do. I just don’t know how to do it.” 

Christensen later pointed out that this difference between what and how is really important but often ignored in the business world. It’s usually easy to figure out what strategy a company needs, but the hard part is figuring out how to actually make that strategy work. I found this story in a foreword Christensen wrote for a book called The 4 Disciplines of Execution. This book explains four “disciplines” (shortened to 4DX) that help companies successfully carry out their big strategies. As I read it, I realized that the gap between what and how also applied to my goal of spending more time working deeply. Just like Andy Grove saw the need to compete in the low-end processor market, I recognized the need to focus on depth in my work. What I needed was help figuring out how to make this happen.

Curious about these connections, I decided to adapt the 4DX framework to my own work habits. I was surprised by how helpful it was in pushing me toward my goal of working deeply. These ideas were created for big businesses, but they seem to work anywhere you need to get something important done while dealing with many distractions. With this in mind, I’ve summarized the four disciplines of the 4DX framework and explained how I adjusted them to help me develop a deep work habit.

**PAGE SUMMARY:** The story of Clayton Christensen and Andy Grove highlights the difference between knowing what to do and knowing how to do it. Christensen's research on disruptive innovation helped Grove create a strategy for Intel. Adapting the 4DX framework helped me focus on working deeply despite distractions.