Chapter 3

“I do all my work by hand,” says Ric Furrer in his artist statement. You can find more about him and his work online at http://www.doorcountyforgeworks.com.

“This part, the initial breakdown,” is important. “You have to be very gentle,” he explains. “It’s ready,” he says when it’s done. “To do it right, it is the most complicated thing,” as shown in the PBS documentary “Secrets of the Viking Swords,” which aired on September 25, 2013. You can check out more about this episode at http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/ancient/secrets-viking-sword.html.

“The satisfactions of manifesting oneself concretely” comes from page 15 of Crawford’s book, Shop Class as Soulcraft. 

Ric Furrer also talks about “the world of information superhighways” in his artist statement.

A Neurological Argument for Depth

“Not just cancer,” he says. “This disease wanted to,” and “movies, walks” are also mentioned on page 3 of Winifred Gallagher’s book, Rapt: Attention and the Focused Life. 

“Like fingers pointing to the moon,” is a phrase from the same book. “Who you are” is also discussed there. He mentions a “reset button” and explains, “Rather than continuing to focus” on negativity, we should embrace positivity. 

Rapt gives a good summary of Barbara Fredrickson’s research on positivity (see pages 48–49), but you can find more details in her 2009 book, Positivity: Groundbreaking Research Reveals How to Embrace the Hidden Strength of Positive Emotions, Overcome Negativity, and Thrive. 

Laura Carstensen’s research is featured in Rapt (see pages 50–51). For more on this, check out the article by Carstensen and Mikels called “At the Intersection of Emotion and Cognition: Aging and the Positivity Effect.”

“Concentration so intense” is described on page 71 of Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi’s book, Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience. 

“Five years of reporting” is mentioned on page 13 of Gallagher’s Rapt. “I’ll choose my targets with care,” he says on page 14.

A Psychological Argument for Depth

If you want to learn more about the experience sampling method, you can read the original article by Larson and Csikszentmihalyi called “The Experience Sampling Method.” You can also find a summary of this technique on Wikipedia.

“The best moments usually occur” is a quote from page 3 of Csikszentmihalyi’s Flow. He also notes, “Ironically, jobs are actually easier to enjoy” on page 162 and suggests that “jobs should be redesigned” on page 157.

**PAGE SUMMARY:** This chapter discusses the importance of hands-on work and the complexity of creating art. It also highlights the significance of positivity and focus in life, referencing various research studies and books on these topics.