Things can definitely go wrong with your schedule as the day goes on. First, you might think a task will take a certain amount of time, like two hours for writing a press release, but it actually takes longer, like two and a half hours. Second, you could get interrupted or new tasks might pop up unexpectedly, which can mess up your plans.

That’s totally fine. If your schedule gets messed up, take a few minutes when you can to make a new plan for the rest of the day. You can start fresh on a new page, erase what you had, or just cross out the old blocks and draw new ones next to them (I make my blocks skinny so I have space for changes). Some days, you might have to rewrite your schedule several times. Don’t worry if that happens. The goal isn’t to stick to a schedule no matter what; it’s to keep thinking about how you want to use your time, even if you have to change your plans a lot throughout the day.

If you find yourself changing your schedule too often, there are a few tricks to help make things more stable. First, realize that you’ll probably underestimate how much time you need for tasks at first. When people start scheduling, they often think everything will go perfectly, but it usually doesn’t. Over time, try to get better at guessing how long things will actually take.

Another helpful trick is to use overflow blocks. If you’re not sure how long something will take, set aside the time you think it will need, then add another block for extra time. If you finish on time, you can use that extra block for something else, like catching up on emails. For example, if you plan two hours to write the press release, you can add an extra hour block just in case you need more time.

The third tip is to use lots of task blocks. Make them longer than you think you’ll need for the tasks you plan in the morning. Unexpected things always come up during the day, so having extra time blocks helps you deal with those surprises without constantly changing your schedule.

**PAGE SUMMARY:** Schedules can easily get messed up due to underestimating time and unexpected tasks. It's okay to revise your plans throughout the day. Use overflow blocks for flexibility and create longer task blocks to handle surprises. This way, you can manage your time better without stress.