Don’t Work Alone

The link between deep work and teamwork is complicated. But figuring it out is important because working well with others can actually improve how well you focus on your work.

To understand this better, let’s look at a problem that seems hard to solve. In the first part of this book, I criticized Facebook for how they designed their new office. They wanted to create the biggest open office space ever, which would fit about 2,800 workers. I think this is a bad idea because it makes it really hard to concentrate. Studies show that being in a big room with lots of coworkers can be super distracting and makes it tough to think deeply. In a 2013 article, Bloomberg Businessweek even said we should stop using open-plan offices.

But there’s a reason why companies choose these open office designs. Maria Konnikova wrote in The New Yorker that the idea behind open offices was to help people communicate and share ideas better. This idea appealed to American businesses that wanted to seem more modern and creative. For example, Josh Tyrangiel, the editor of Bloomberg Businessweek, said that having no offices helps everyone stay focused on the company’s goals and encourages people to learn from each other. Jack Dorsey, the CEO of Square, explained that they want people to be in the open because they believe that random meetings can lead to new ideas.

Let’s call this idea—the belief that letting people run into each other can spark smart teamwork and fresh ideas—the theory of serendipitous creativity. When Mark Zuckerberg decided to build the huge office, it’s likely that this theory influenced his choice, just like it has for many other companies in Silicon Valley. Other reasons, like saving money and keeping an eye on employees, also matter, but they’re not as exciting to talk about.

This choice between helping people focus and encouraging creative teamwork might seem like deep work (which is done alone) can’t go hand in hand with coming up with new ideas (which is done with others). However, this idea is not completely right.

**PAGE SUMMARY:** The relationship between deep work and teamwork is complex. While open offices can distract, they also encourage communication and creativity. Balancing focus and collaboration is essential for success in professional environments.