http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/166yeo/iama_blogger_for_fivethirtyeight_at_the_new_york.
 
 • “Why Use Stata.” www.stata.com/why-use-stata/.
 
 The SQL example I gave was from postgreSQL, an open source database system popular in both industry and (especially) academia. I don’t know what specific system Silver uses, but it almost certainly requires some variant of the SQL language used in this example.
 
 Deep Work Helps You Quickly Learn Hard Things “Let your mind become a lens”: from page 95 of Sertillanges, Antonin-Dalmace. The Intellectual Life: Its Spirits, Conditions, Methods. Trans. Mary Ryan. Cork, Ireland: Mercier Press, 1948.
 
 “the development and deepening of the mind”: Ibid., 13.
 
 Details about deliberate practice draw heavily on the following seminal survey paper on the topic: Ericsson, K.A., R.T. Krampe, and C. Tesch-Römer. “The Role of Deliberate Practice in the Acquisition of Expert Performance.” Psychological Review 100.3 (1993): 363–406.
 
 “We deny that these differences [between expert performers and normal adults] are immutable”: Ibid., 13.
 
 “Men of genius themselves”: from page 95 of Sertillanges, The Intellectual Life.
 
 “Diffused attention is almost antithetical to the focused attention required by deliberate practice”: from page 368 of Ericsson, Krampe, and Tesch-Romer. “The Role of Deliberate Practice in the Acquisition of Expert Performance.” Details on the neurobiology of expert performance can be found in: Coyle, The Talent Code.
 
 Coyle also has a nice slideshow about myelination at his website: “Want to Be a Superstar Athlete? Build More Myelin.” The Talent Code. www.thetalentcode.com/myelin.
 
 For more on deliberate practice, the following two books provide a good popular overview: • Colvin, Geoffrey. Talent Is Overrated: What Really Separates World-Class Performers from Everybody Else. New York: Portfolio, 2008.
 
 • Coyle, Daniel. The Talent Code: Greatness Isn’t Born. It’s Grown. Here’s How. New York: Bantam, 2009.
 
 Deep Work Helps You Produce at an Elite Level More about Adam Grant, his records, and his (thirty-page) CV can be found at his academic website: https://mgmt.wharton.upenn.edu/profile/1323/.
 
 Grant, Adam. Give and Take: Why Helping Others Drives Our Success. New York: Viking Adult, 2013.
 
 The article on Adam Grant in the New York Times Magazine: Dominus, Susan. “The Saintly Way to Succeed.” New York Times Magazine, March 31, 2013: MM20.
 
 Newport, Cal. How to Become a Straight-A Student: The Unconventional Strategies Used by Real College Students to Score High While Studying Less. New York: Three Rivers Press, 2006.
 
 Leroy, Sophie. “Why Is It So Hard to Do My Work? The Challenge of Attention Residue When Switching Between Work Tasks.” Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes 109 (2009): 168–181.
 
 What About Jack Dorsey?
 
