HOW TO FIND SECRETS

There are two kinds of secrets: secrets about nature and secrets about people. Natural secrets are all around us. To find them, you have to study parts of the physical world that no one has discovered yet. Secrets about people are different. They are things people don’t know about themselves or things they hide because they don’t want others to find out.

When thinking about what kind of company to start, ask yourself two questions: What secrets is nature hiding from you? What secrets are people hiding?

People often think natural secrets are the most important. The people who look for them can sound very smart and sure of themselves. That’s why physics experts are often hard to work with—they think they know everything because they know the basic truths of the universe. But just because someone understands physics doesn’t mean they’re good at fixing personal problems or running a business.

At PayPal, I once interviewed a physics expert for an engineering job. Halfway through my first question, he shouted, “Stop! I already know what you’re going to ask!” But he was wrong. Saying no to him was the easiest decision I ever made.

Secrets about people don’t get enough attention. Maybe that’s because you don’t need years of school to ask the right questions that find them: What are people not allowed to talk about? What topics are forbidden or taboo?

Sometimes, looking for secrets about nature and about people leads to the same answer.

Think about monopolies: competition and capitalism are actually opposites. You could figure that out by studying company profits and seeing how competition lowers them. Or you could ask: what can company leaders not say out loud? You’d notice monopolies try to hide their power, while competitive companies brag about how special they are. The differences between companies look small at first, but they’re actually huge.

The best place to find secrets is where no one else is looking. Most people only think about what they’ve been taught in school, and school teaches common ideas. So ask yourself: are there any important fields that nobody has made official or serious? Physics is a real subject at big universities and it’s very set in its ways. Astrology is the opposite, but it doesn’t really matter. What about nutrition? Nutrition matters to everyone, but you can’t major in it at Harvard. Most top scientists study other subjects.

Most big nutrition studies were done 30 or 40 years ago, and many have big problems. The food pyramid that told us to eat low fat and lots of grains was probably made more because of food companies than real science. It has actually made obesity worse.

There’s a lot more to learn. We know more about distant stars than about what people should eat. It won’t be easy, but it’s not impossible. This kind of field could have lots of secrets waiting to be found.
