A good sales plan for big companies starts small. A new customer might become your biggest one, but they usually won’t want to sign a deal that’s way bigger than what you’ve done before. After you have some happy customers using your product, you can slowly work on getting bigger deals.

Most sales aren’t super complicated. Deals usually cost between $10,000 and $100,000, and the CEO doesn’t have to do all the selling. The real challenge is figuring out how a small sales team can sell the product to lots of people.

In 2008, Box had a cool way for companies to store their data safely online. But people didn’t know they needed this yet because cloud computing wasn’t popular. That summer, Blake joined as Box’s third salesperson to help change that. Starting with small groups who had big file-sharing problems, Box’s salespeople made connections with more users in each company. In 2009, Blake sold a small Box deal to the Stanford Sleep Clinic, where researchers needed a safe place to store data. Now, Stanford gives every student and teacher access to Box, and the hospital uses it too. If Box had tried to sell the university president a big deal at first, they would have sold nothing. Instead, personal sales helped Box grow into a multibillion-dollar company.

Sometimes, the product itself helps spread sales. ZocDoc is a company that helps people find and book doctor appointments online. They charge doctors a few hundred dollars each month to join. Since each deal is small, ZocDoc needs lots of salespeople and even has a team just to hire more. When salespeople add doctors, the product becomes more useful for patients, and more patients make it better for doctors. Over 5 million people use ZocDoc every month. If it keeps growing, it could become super important for health care in the U.S.

There’s a tricky spot between personal sales (with salespeople) and advertising (no salespeople). Imagine you make software to help convenience store owners manage their stock for about $1,000. There’s no easy way to reach these small businesses. Advertising is too broad or not effective enough. You need salespeople, but at that price, you can’t afford to send someone to every customer. This is why many small businesses don’t use tools that big companies do. It’s not because they’re behind or tools don’t exist; the problem is how the product gets to customers.
