What if we think of Google as a company that does a lot of different tech stuff? That makes sense because besides its search engine, Google also makes many software products, self-driving cars, Android phones, and wearable gadgets. But 95% of Google’s money comes from search ads. Its other products made only $2.35 billion in 2012, and its consumer tech products made even less. Since the global consumer tech market is worth $964 billion, Google only has less than 0.24% of it—a very small part, not close to being a monopoly. Calling itself just another tech company helps Google avoid a lot of unwanted criticism.

Some companies that aren’t monopolies tell a different kind of lie: “We’re the best and have no real competition.” New business owners often downplay how much competition they have, but that’s a big mistake. The worst thing a startup can do is describe their market so narrowly that they seem to be the only player.

Imagine you want to open a restaurant serving British food in Palo Alto. You might think, “No one else is doing this, so we’ll own the whole market.” But that’s only true if your market is just British food. What if the real market is all restaurants in Palo Alto? Or even all restaurants in nearby towns?

These are tough questions, but the bigger issue is that you don’t want to ask them.

When you hear that most new restaurants fail within a year or two, you’ll want to come up with reasons why yours will be different. You’ll spend time trying to prove you’re special instead of honestly thinking about whether that’s true. It’s better to stop and ask if there are really people in Palo Alto who want to eat British food most of all. Maybe they don’t.

Back in 2001, my coworkers at PayPal and I often got lunch on Castro Street in Mountain View.

We had many restaurants to choose from, like Indian, sushi, and burgers. Even within those, we could pick things like North Indian or South Indian, cheap or fancy. Unlike the busy restaurant market, PayPal was then the only company in the world that did email-based payments.
