“If you already have something, you’ll get even more, and end up with a lot. But if you don’t have anything, even what little you have can be taken away” (Matthew 25:29). Albert Einstein said something similar about compound interest, calling it “the eighth wonder of the world,” “the greatest math discovery ever,” or “the most powerful force in the universe.” No matter how you say it, his point is clear: don’t ignore how fast things can grow when they grow exponentially.

Actually, there’s no proof that Einstein really said any of those quotes—they’re probably made up. But this mix-up still shows the idea: because of his genius, Einstein keeps getting credit and “interest” even after he’s gone, just like an investment that keeps growing.

Most quotes are forgotten over time. But some people, like Einstein and Shakespeare, are quoted all the time. That’s not surprising because a small number of people often achieve way more than most others. In 1906, an economist named Vilfredo Pareto found what’s now called the “Pareto principle” or the 80-20 rule. He saw that 20% of people owned 80% of the land in Italy, which was as normal to him as 20% of the pea pods in his garden making 80% of the peas. This pattern, where a small group has way more than the rest, happens everywhere—in earthquakes, cities, and big companies. The biggest earthquakes are way stronger than all the smaller ones combined. The biggest cities are much larger than all the small towns put together. And monopoly companies make more money than millions of small competitors. Whether Einstein said it or not, this “power law” explains how unevenly things are spread out in the world, so much that we usually don’t even notice it.

This chapter will show how the power law becomes clear when you look at money: in venture capital—where people invest in new companies hoping they’ll grow super fast—a few companies become way more valuable than all the others. Most businesses don’t deal with venture capital, but everyone should know one important thing that even the investors find hard to understand: we don’t live in a normal, average world; we live in a world ruled by the power law.
