A QUICK HISTORY OF THE ’90S

The 1990s are often seen as a good time. People remember them as a decade full of hope and money, ending with the rise and fall of the internet boom. But a lot of those years were actually tougher than we like to think. We’ve forgotten what was happening in the world during the crazy dot-com days at the end of the decade.

The ’90s began with excitement when the Berlin Wall fell in late 1989. But that feeling didn’t last long. By mid-1990, the U.S. was in a recession. The economy technically started to recover in early 1991, but it was slow, and many people stayed unemployed until mid-1992. Factories never really came back, and moving to a service-based economy was hard.

From 1992 to 1994, things felt kind of gloomy. News showed American soldiers dying in Somalia, and people worried about jobs moving to Mexico. This made many Americans unhappy, helping President Bush lose the 1992 election and giving Ross Perot, a third-party candidate, almost 20% of the vote. Even though bands like Nirvana were popular, the culture wasn’t really full of hope.

Silicon Valley wasn’t doing great either. Japan seemed to be winning in making computer chips. The internet wasn’t popular yet because it was hard to use and mostly for researchers. When I started college at Stanford in 1985, most students studied economics, not computer science. The tech world seemed odd and not very important.

Then the internet changed everything. In November 1993, the Mosaic browser made it easy for normal people to go online. Mosaic became Netscape, and its Navigator browser came out in 1994. Navigator got popular super fast—from 20% of users in early 1995 to almost 80% a year later. Netscape’s stock price jumped from $28 to $174 in five months, even though it wasn’t making money yet. Other companies like Yahoo! and Amazon also grew fast after going public. By 1998, their stock prices had more than quadrupled. Some people thought the market was crazy for paying so much for these companies.

That idea made sense but wasn’t totally right. In 1996, before the bubble burst, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan warned that the market might be too excited. Tech investors were hopeful, but maybe not completely crazy. It’s easy to forget that many parts of the world were struggling at the time.

In July 1997, East Asia had a financial crisis. Countries like Thailand, Indonesia, and South Korea faced big money problems. In August 1998, Russia’s economy collapsed when it couldn’t pay its debts and its currency lost value. This scared American investors because Russia had a lot of nuclear weapons but no money. The stock market dropped more than 10% in just a few days.

People had good reason to worry. Russia’s crisis caused a chain reaction that hurt a big U.S. hedge fund called Long-Term Capital Management (LTCM). LTCM lost $4.6 billion in the second half of 1998 and still owed over $100 billion. The Federal Reserve had to step in with a huge bailout and cut interest rates to stop a disaster. Europe was also struggling during this time.
