Globalization means the world is more connected than ever before. Technology is changing fast, and people are trying to fix problems like global warming.

The Golden Gate Bridge is famous, and Google is a huge company that many people use every day. Some companies, like Google, act like a monopoly, meaning they control a lot of the market.

Al Gore is known for his work on climate change. Governments sometimes have to deal with big economic problems like the Great Depression. Alan Greenspan was an important figure in finance.

Bill Gross and Groupon are names you might hear in business and finance. The Guardian is a popular news source. Hamlet is a famous play, and Brian Harrison and Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel are important thinkers.

Jimi Hendrix was a legendary musician. Bill Hewlett co-founded Hewlett-Packard, a big tech company. Hipster culture is popular with some young people. The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy is a famous sci-fi book. Reid Hoffman is known for his work in tech.

Horizontal progress means making steady improvements. The housing bubble was a big cause of economic trouble. Ken Howery, Howard Hughes, and Chad Hurley are known in business and tech. Hyundai and IBM are big companies.

Igor is a name, and incentive pay means getting money for doing a good job. Income inequality is when some people earn a lot more than others. Incrementalism means making small changes over time.

Some things can last forever, like indefinite finance or optimism. India and Indonesia are big countries in Asia. Information technology is all about computers and the internet.

Informix is a software company. Innovation means creating new ideas. Insider trading is when people cheat in the stock market. Instagram is a popular app. Intel makes computer chips.

The internet changed everything. There was an internet bubble when many tech companies got too much investment and then crashed. The Interstate Highway System helped build roads across the U.S.

Intuit is a company that makes financial software. The iPad is a popular tablet made by Apple.
