The next Bill Gates won’t make an operating system. The next big moment in business, like Larry Page or Sergey Brin, won’t be about making a search engine. And the next Mark Zuckerberg won’t create a social network. If you’re just copying what they did, you’re not really learning from them.

It’s easier to copy something than to invent something new. Doing what we already know takes the world from 1 to n, which means making more of the same thing. But creating something new goes from 0 to 1. Making something new is a unique moment, and the result is something fresh and different.

If American companies don’t try to create new things, they will fail in the future, no matter how much money they make now. What will happen when we’ve improved all the old businesses as much as we can? The answer might be worse than the financial crisis of 2008. The usual “best ways” to do business will lead nowhere; the best way is to try new and untested ideas.

In a world filled with huge government and company systems, finding a new path can feel like hoping for a miracle. But if American business wants to succeed, we will need hundreds or even thousands of miracles. This sounds hard, but the good news is humans are different from other animals because we can work miracles. We call these miracles technology.

Technology is amazing because it helps us do more with less, making us better at many things. Other animals build things like dams or honeycombs by instinct, but only humans can invent new things and new ways to make them.

Humans don’t just pick what to build from a list of options. Instead, by creating new technology, we change how the world works. These are basic ideas taught to young kids, but they’re easy to forget when most of what we do is just repeat what’s been done before.

Zero to One is about how to build companies that make new things. It’s based on what I learned as a co-founder of PayPal and Palantir and as an investor in many startups like Facebook and SpaceX. While I’ve noticed many patterns and share them here, this book doesn’t give a guaranteed way to succeed. Teaching entrepreneurship is tricky because every new idea is different, so no one can say exactly how to be creative. The most important thing I’ve seen is that successful people find value in surprising places by thinking about business from basic truths, not fixed rules.

This book comes from a class about startups I taught at Stanford in 2012. College students can become really good at certain skills, but many don’t learn how to use those skills in real life. My main goal in teaching was to help students look beyond their college subjects to the bigger future they can create. One student, Blake Masters, took detailed notes that got shared beyond the school, and in Zero to One I worked with him to improve those notes for everyone to read.
