PAYPAL CRAZE When I was running PayPal in late 1999, I was super scared—not because I didn’t believe in our company, but because it felt like everyone else in Silicon Valley was ready to believe anything. Everywhere I looked, people were starting and selling companies like it was no big deal. One friend told me he planned to take his company public from his living room before he even officially started it—and he thought that was normal. In this kind of world, acting normal started to seem weird.

At least PayPal had a big goal—the kind that people later called too ambitious: we wanted to make a new internet money to replace the U.S. dollar. Our first product let people send money from one PalmPilot to another. But no one really wanted that product except journalists, who voted it one of the 10 worst business ideas of 1999.

PalmPilots were still too rare back then, but email was everywhere, so we decided to make a way to send and get payments through email.

By fall of ’99, our email payment product worked well—anyone could log in to our website and easily send money. But we didn’t have enough users, growth was slow, and costs were rising. For PayPal to work, we needed at least a million users.

Advertising didn’t work well enough to pay for itself. Deals with big banks kept failing. So we decided to pay people to join.

We gave new users $10 for signing up, and $10 more every time they invited a friend. This got us hundreds of thousands of new users and super fast growth. Of course, this way of getting customers couldn’t last forever—when you pay people to join, growing fast means spending way more money. Crazy costs were normal in Silicon Valley then. But we thought our big costs made sense: if lots of people used PayPal, we could make money by charging a small fee on payments.

We knew we’d need more money to reach that point. We also knew the boom was going to end soon. Since we didn’t think investors would keep believing in us after the crash, we worked fast to get money while we could. On February 16, 2000, the Wall Street Journal wrote a story praising our fast growth and said PayPal was worth $500 million. When we raised $100 million the next month, our main investor used the Journal’s estimate as a fact.

(Some investors were even more rushed. A South Korean company sent us $5 million without any deal or contract. When I tried to send the money back, they wouldn’t tell me where.) That March 2000 funding gave us the time we needed to make PayPal succeed. Right after we finished the deal, the bubble burst.
