At PayPal, we started with just 24 people, all working there. Getting customers through banner ads was too expensive. Instead, we paid people to sign up and paid them more to get their friends to join. This helped us grow really fast. It cost $20 for each new customer, but we grew 7% every day, almost doubling our users every 10 days. After 4 or 5 months, we had hundreds of thousands of users and a good chance to build a great company by handling money transfers for small fees that made more money than what we spent on getting users.

The first company to control the most important part of a market with viral potential gets a big advantage. At PayPal, we didn’t just want random users; we wanted the most valuable ones first. One big group was emigrants sending money home using Western Union, but they didn’t send money often. So we looked for a smaller group that moved money more often. We found eBay “PowerSellers,” about 20,000 professional sellers who ran many auctions daily. They bought and sold a lot, so there were many payments happening all the time. eBay’s own payment system was bad, so these sellers loved PayPal early on. Once PayPal became the main way to pay on eBay, no one could catch up.

The Power Law of Distribution means one way of getting customers will be way stronger than all others for a business. Many entrepreneurs think more is better, but using a bit of everything like salespeople, magazine ads, and viral features usually fails. Most businesses fail because they don’t get any good way to reach customers, not because their product is bad. If you find one great way to reach customers, you have a strong business. Trying many ways but failing at all means you lose.

Your company must sell more than just the product. You also have to sell the company itself to employees and investors. Some people think if the product is great, employees will rush to join and investors will fight to invest. That excitement can happen, but usually only after careful recruiting and pitching behind the scenes.

Selling your company to the media is part of selling it to everyone else. People who don’t trust the media often ignore it. But just like a great product needs a way to reach customers, a great company needs a good public relations plan. Even if your product spreads on its own, the press can help bring in investors and employees.
