People who aren’t very good at picking up social clues, like those with Asperger’s, might actually have an advantage in places like Silicon Valley today. If you don’t pay much attention to what others are doing, you’re less likely to copy them. If you like making things or coding, you won’t be scared to focus on those things and get really good at them. When you use your skills, you’re also less likely to give up your own ideas, which can help you avoid fighting with crowds for obvious rewards.

Competition can make people imagine chances to win that aren’t really there. In the crazy ’90s, there was a wild fight to own the online pet store market. It was Pets.com vs. PetStore.com vs. Petopia.com and many others. Each company only cared about beating the others because they didn’t have real differences. They argued over small stuff like who could sell dog toys cheaper or make the best Super Bowl ads, but forgot to think about if selling pet supplies online was even a good idea. Winning is better than losing, but everyone loses if the fight isn’t worth it. When Pets.com went bankrupt after the dot-com crash, $300 million in investments just disappeared.

Sometimes, competition is just weird and distracting. Take the fight between Larry Ellison, co-founder and CEO of Oracle, and Tom Siebel, a top salesperson at Oracle who later started his own company, Siebel Systems, in 1993. Ellison was angry because he thought Siebel betrayed him. Siebel hated being under Ellison’s shadow. Both were similar—tough Chicago guys who loved to sell and hated losing—so their hate was strong. They spent the late ’90s trying to mess each other up. At one point, Ellison sent lots of ice cream sandwiches to Siebel’s office to try and get his workers to switch sides. The wrapper said, “Summer is near. Oracle is here. To brighten your day and your career.”

Strangely, Oracle liked having enemies. Ellison believed it’s good to have a big enemy who seems scary enough to push employees but not big enough to really hurt the company. So, Ellison was probably happy in 1996 when a small database company called Informix put up a billboard near Oracle’s office that said, “YOU’VE JUST PASSED REDWOOD SHORES. SO DID WE.” Oracle answered with a billboard that joked Informix’s software was slower than snails.
