What do successful people say? Malcolm Gladwell, a famous writer who studies successful people, says in his book Outliers that success comes from a mix of lucky breaks and random advantages. Warren Buffett calls himself a “member of the lucky sperm club” and a winner of the “ovarian lottery.” Jeff Bezos says Amazon’s success was thanks to “amazing timing” and jokes that it was “half luck, half good timing, and the rest brains.” Bill Gates even says he was “lucky to be born with certain skills,” though it’s hard to know if that’s true.

Maybe these guys are just being humble. But lots of people who start many successful businesses make us question the idea that success is mostly luck. Hundreds of people have started several businesses worth millions. Some, like Steve Jobs, Jack Dorsey, and Elon Musk, have created many companies worth billions. If success was mostly luck, these people probably wouldn’t be so successful again and again.

In January 2013, Jack Dorsey, who started Twitter and Square, tweeted to his 2 million followers: “Success is never accidental.” Most people replied with disagreement. A reporter named Alexis Madrigal said he wanted to reply: “ ‘Success is never accidental,’ said all multimillionaire white men.” It’s true that people who are already successful have an easier time doing new things because of their connections, money, or experience. But maybe we’re too quick to ignore anyone who says they planned their success.

Is there a way to prove this for sure? Sadly, no. Businesses aren’t like science experiments. To test a company like Facebook, we’d need to go back to 2004, make 1,000 copies of the world, and start Facebook in each one to see how many times it works. But that’s impossible. Every company starts in different situations, and each company only starts once. You can’t use statistics when you only have one example.

In the past, from the Renaissance to the mid-1900s, people thought luck was something you could control or master. Everyone agreed you should focus on what you can do, not on what you can’t. Ralph Waldo Emerson said: “Shallow men believe in luck, believe in circumstances.… Strong men believe in cause and effect.” In 1912, after being the first to reach the South Pole, Roald Amundsen said: “Victory waits for those who have everything in order—luck, people call it.” People didn’t ignore bad luck, but they believed hard work helped make their own luck.

If you think life is mostly about chance, why read this book? Learning about startups won’t help if you just think success is like winning the lottery. Books about slot machines might tell you which lucky charm to use or which machines are “hot,” but they can’t teach you how to win.

Did Bill Gates just get lucky with his smarts? Was Sheryl Sandberg born rich, or did she “lean in” and work hard? When we talk about history, luck is something that happened in the past. What really matters is what we believe about the future: is it mostly chance or is it something we can plan?
