You can’t find secrets unless you try to find them. Andrew Wiles showed this when he solved Fermat’s Last Theorem after 358 years of no one figuring it out—a problem that seemed impossible. Pierre de Fermat guessed in 1637 that no whole numbers a, b, and c could work in the equation an + bn = cn for any number n bigger than 2. He said he had a proof but never wrote it down, so the problem stayed unsolved for a long time. Wiles began working on it in 1986 but kept it secret until 1993 when he was close to finishing. After nine years of hard work, he proved it in 1995. He needed to be really smart, but he also had to believe in secrets.

If you think something is too hard or impossible, you won’t even try to do it. Believing in secrets is actually a good way to find the truth.

The real truth is that many secrets still exist, but only people who keep searching will find them. There’s a lot left to discover in science, medicine, engineering, and technology. We can reach goals that even the smartest people in history didn’t dare to talk about. We might cure cancer, dementia, and other diseases that come with aging. We can find new energy sources that stop fights over oil. We can invent faster ways to travel on Earth and even learn how to live in space. But none of this will happen if we don’t want to find these secrets and make ourselves look for them.

The same idea works in business. Great companies can be built on simple secrets about how the world works that most people don’t notice. Think about Silicon Valley startups that used resources around us that people ignored. Before Airbnb, travelers mostly had to pay a lot for hotels, and homeowners couldn’t easily rent out their empty rooms.

Airbnb saw a chance where others didn’t. The same goes for car services like Lyft and Uber. Hardly anyone thought you could make a billion-dollar business just by connecting people who need rides with people who can give them. We already had taxis and limos, but only by believing in secrets could you see this new opportunity.

That’s why many internet companies, like Facebook, are often underestimated—their ideas seem very simple. But if such simple ideas can create big, important businesses, it means there are still many great companies waiting to be started.
