HOW TO SELL A PRODUCT

Being really good at selling and getting your product out there can help you control the market, even if your product isn’t very different from others.

But the opposite isn’t true. No matter how awesome your product is—even if it fits easily into what people already do and everyone who tries it loves it—you still need a strong plan to get it to customers.

There are two main things to keep in mind for selling well. First, the total profit you make from a customer over time (Customer Lifetime Value, or CLV) has to be more than what you spend to get that customer (Customer Acquisition Cost, or CAC). Usually, the more expensive your product, the more you have to spend to sell it—and that’s okay.

Selling methods can be simple or complex. If your average sale is really expensive—like millions of dollars—you have to put a lot of effort into each deal. It might take months to build the right connections, and you might only make a sale once every year or two. You also need to help the customer after the sale, like with installation and service. This “complex sales” way is hard, but it’s the only way to sell some of the most valuable stuff.

SpaceX is an example of how this works. Just a few years after starting, Elon Musk convinced NASA to sign huge contracts worth billions to replace the old space shuttle with SpaceX’s new rocket. Politics was as important as technology here, so it wasn’t easy. SpaceX has over 3,000 employees mostly in California, but the U.S. aerospace industry has over 500,000 workers all across the country. Members of Congress don’t want to lose money for their home states. But because complex sales means making only a few big deals each year, Elon Musk could focus on the most important people and even get past political problems.

Complex sales works best when there are no regular “salesmen.” At Palantir, the data company I helped start with my friend Alex Karp, we don’t have separate salespeople. Instead, Alex, who is the CEO, spends most of his time meeting with clients. Our deals range from $1 million to $100 million.

At that price, buyers want to talk to the CEO, not a sales manager.

Companies using complex sales do well if they grow 50% to 100% every year for about ten years. This might seem slow if you’re hoping for viral success. You might think sales will jump 10 times quickly if customers see how great your product is, but that almost never happens.
