WHY AREN’T PEOPLE LOOKING FOR SECRETS?

Most people act like there are no secrets left to find. A good example of this idea is Ted Kaczynski, who is also called the Unabomber. He was really smart and went to Harvard when he was just 16. He got a PhD in math and became a professor at UC Berkeley. But you only know him because he spent 17 years sending bombs to professors, tech workers, and business people.

In late 1995, the police didn’t know who the Unabomber was or where he was hiding. The biggest clue was a 35,000-word essay Kaczynski wrote and sent to the newspapers without saying who he was. The FBI asked some big newspapers to print it, hoping someone would recognize it. It worked: Kaczynski’s brother saw the writing and told the police.

You might think the essay would be crazy, but it was actually very clear. Kaczynski said that to be happy, people need goals that take effort to reach, and they need to achieve some of those goals. He split goals into three kinds: 1. Goals you can reach with little effort; 2. Goals you can reach with a lot of effort; and 3. Goals you can’t reach no matter how hard you try.

This is the classic idea of easy, hard, and impossible goals. Kaczynski said people are sad today because all the hard problems have already been solved.

Now, what’s left to do is either easy or impossible, and doing those things doesn’t feel good. Easy things can be done by a kid, and impossible things can’t be done even by someone as smart as Einstein. So, Kaczynski thought we should destroy all existing systems, get rid of technology, and let people start over with new hard problems.

Kaczynski’s actions were crazy, but his feeling that technology hasn’t got anything new to offer is common today.

Look at some small signs of this in city hipsters: old-style photography, handlebar mustaches, and vinyl records all remind us of a time when people were excited about the future. If everything worth doing is already done, you might as well pretend you don’t care about success and just become a barista.
