Salespeople are like actors: their main goal is to convince you, not always to be honest. That’s why the word “salesman” can sound bad, and the used car dealer is often seen as sneaky. But we only dislike salespeople who are awkward and obvious—that means the bad ones. There are many levels of sales skill: beginners, experts, and even masters. Some are grandmasters. If you don’t know any grandmasters, it’s because their skill is hidden right in front of you. For example, Tom Sawyer convinced his friends to paint his fence for him. That was smart. But getting them to pay him to do his chores? That was genius, and they didn’t even realize it. Things haven’t changed much since 1876.

Like acting, sales works best when you don’t notice it. That’s why many people who sell stuff have job titles that don’t sound like sales. People who sell ads are called “account executives.” People who find new customers have jobs in “business development.” Those who sell companies are “investment bankers.” And people who sell themselves are called “politicians.” This is because no one likes to feel like they’re being sold to.

No matter the job, being good at sales separates the best from the rest. On Wall Street, a new worker starts as an “analyst” using technical skills, but wants to become a dealmaker. Lawyers may be proud of their skills, but law firms are run by “rainmakers” who bring in big clients. Even university professors, who focus on knowledge, admire people who promote themselves and their ideas. Ideas in history, English, physics, or cancer research don’t spread just because they’re smart—they need persuasion. The biggest reason people don’t realize how important sales is, is because it’s hidden in every field, even though it secretly controls a lot.

Engineers hope to create a product that “sells itself.” But if someone says this about a real product, they’re either fooling themselves or trying to sell something. Another saying is “the best product doesn’t always win.” Economists say this is because of “path dependence,” meaning history and luck can decide which products become popular. That’s true, but it doesn’t mean things like computer systems or keyboard layouts happened by chance. It’s better to think of selling as part of designing your product. If you make something great but can’t sell it well, your business won’t succeed—no matter how good your product is.
