WHAT TO DO WITH THE POWER LAW

The power law isn’t just important for investors—it matters to everyone because everyone is an investor in some way. For example, an entrepreneur invests a lot of time working on a startup. So, every entrepreneur needs to think about whether their company will succeed and become valuable. Everyone else is also an investor when they pick a career because they believe their work will be worth something in the future.

Most people say the best way to plan for the future is to spread your bets: “Don’t put all your eggs in one basket.” Even top investors have a portfolio, but those who really get the power law make as few investments as possible. Regular advice says that having lots of small bets protects you from risk. The more you try, the safer you are if one thing fails.

But life isn’t like a portfolio—not for startup founders and not for anyone else. An entrepreneur can’t spread themselves thin by running many companies at once and hope one works out. Also, a person can’t prepare for life by keeping many different careers ready to go.

Schools teach the opposite. They give everyone the same basic knowledge. In American schools, every class is the same length no matter the subject, and students all move at the same speed. In college, many students try to protect their future by learning lots of random skills. Universities focus on “excellence” and offer tons of courses in many areas to make you feel like it doesn’t matter what you choose, as long as you do it well. That’s wrong. What you do absolutely matters. You should focus on what you’re good at, but first, you need to think carefully if it will be valuable later.

For startups, this means you don’t have to start your own company, even if you’re really talented. Actually, too many people are trying to start companies right now.

People who understand the power law wait and think more before starting a new business. They know they could become very successful by joining a top company that’s growing fast. The power law shows that the differences between companies are much bigger than the differences in jobs inside a company. You might own 100% of your own startup, but if it fails, that’s worthless. But owning just a tiny part of a huge company like Google can be worth millions.

If you do start a company, remember the power law to run it well. Usually, one market is better than all others. One way to sell your product usually works best. Timing and decisions also follow the power law—some moments are way more important than others. But a world that ignores the power law won’t help you make the right choices. What matters most is rarely clear and might even be hidden. In a power law world, you have to think hard about where your actions will fit on the curve.
