OWNERSHIP, POSSESSION, AND CONTROL

It’s not just the founders who need to get along. Everyone in your company needs to work well together.

A Silicon Valley libertarian might say you can fix this problem by just working for yourself. Psychologists have lots of ideas about how people’s minds are complicated, but in business, working alone means you don’t have to deal with others’ opinions.

But this also limits what kind of company you can build. It’s really hard to go from nothing to something big without a team.

A Silicon Valley anarchist might say you can get perfect teamwork if you hire the right people who work well without any rules. They believe that chaos and freedom at work help break old boring rules. And it’s true that “if people were perfect, we wouldn’t need rules.” But companies that have no rules miss an important point: people aren’t perfect. That’s why bosses and boards have different jobs; it’s also why founders and investors have clear roles. You need good people who get along, but you also need a system to keep everyone working together for the long run.

To understand where problems can happen in any company, it helps to know three things:  
• Ownership: who legally owns parts of the company?  
• Possession: who actually runs the company every day?  
• Control: who officially makes the big decisions?

A typical startup shares ownership among founders, employees, and investors. The managers and workers who run the company have possession. And a board of directors, usually made up of founders and investors, controls the company.

In theory, this setup works well. Owning part of the company motivates investors and workers. Running the company gives founders and employees power to get things done. The board keeps an eye on the big picture. But splitting these roles between different people can also cause problems.

To see this problem clearly, think about the DMV. Imagine you need a new driver’s license. It should be easy, right? The DMV is a government agency, and since we live in a democracy, the people “own” the DMV because they elect officials who control it. So you should be able to get your license without trouble.

But that’s not how it works. We might “own” the DMV on paper, but that ownership isn’t real. The workers at the DMV have real power over how things run. Even the governor and lawmakers who are supposed to control the DMV can’t fix the problems. The agency moves slowly and doesn’t change much no matter what politicians do. The DMV workers can make your visit easy or a nightmare just by how they act. You can remind them that you’re the boss, but it probably won’t help.

Big companies do better than the DMV, but they still have problems, especially between owners and managers. For example, the CEO of a huge company like General Motors owns only a tiny part of the company’s stock.
