Before we get into the details, let’s talk about a popular idea for dealing with distraction that doesn’t really fix the problem: the Internet Sabbath, or digital detox. This means setting aside regular time—usually one day a week—when you don’t use the internet or any network technology.

Like the Sabbath in the Hebrew Bible, which is a time for quiet and thinking about God and his works, the Internet Sabbath is supposed to help you notice what you miss when you’re always looking at a screen.

No one knows who first came up with the Internet Sabbath idea, but journalist William Powers made it popular in his 2010 book, Hamlet’s BlackBerry. Powers says the idea is to be a little disconnected sometimes, but still stay part of the connected world. Lots of advice about distraction is like this: take breaks now and then. Some people take one or two months off a year, others try one day a week like Powers, and some take one or two hours off every day. These breaks can help, but when you think about how the brain works, just having an Internet Sabbath isn’t enough to fix being distracted. It’s like eating healthy only one day a week—you probably won’t lose weight if the rest of the time you eat a lot. The same goes for distraction: if you only resist it one day a week, your brain still wants it the rest of the time.

I have a different idea instead of the Internet Sabbath. Instead of planning breaks from distraction to focus, plan breaks from focus to let yourself get distracted. To make this clear, let’s say using the Internet means looking for distractions. (You can use the Internet to focus, but that’s hard if you’re easily distracted.) Also, working without the Internet means you’re more focused. (You can still get distracted without the internet, but it’s usually easier to avoid.) So here’s the plan: Decide ahead of time when you’ll use the Internet, and don’t use it outside those times. I suggest keeping a notepad next to your computer at work. Write down the next time you’re allowed to go online.
