Dewane calls the library “the hard drive of the machine.” The next room is the office area. It has a normal meeting room with a whiteboard and some cubicles with desks. “The office,” Dewane says, “is for low-energy work.” In other words, this is where you do the easy tasks your project needs. Dewane imagines someone working at a desk here who helps people improve their work habits to be more efficient.

Now, let’s talk about the last room of the machine, which Dewane calls “deep work chambers” (he got the idea of “deep work” from my articles). Each chamber is about six by ten feet and has thick soundproof walls (Dewane plans for 18 inches of insulation). “The deep work chamber is meant to help you focus completely without interruptions,” Dewane explains. He thinks you should spend 90 minutes inside, then take a 90-minute break, and repeat this two or three times. After that, your brain will have reached its limit for focusing that day.

Right now, the Eudaimonia Machine is just a set of building plans, but even as a plan, Dewane is excited about how it could help people do important work.

“This design is the coolest thing I’ve ever created,” he told me.

Ideally, if people really understood and appreciated deep work, we would all have something like the Eudaimonia Machine. Maybe not exactly Dewane’s design, but some kind of work space and culture that helps us get the most out of our brains.

But sadly, this is not how things are now. Instead, we work in noisy open offices where emails never stop and meetings happen all the time — a place where coworkers want you to answer quickly instead of doing your best work. So, as someone reading this book, you’re someone who values deep work even though the world around you doesn’t.

This idea—called the first of four rules in Part 2 of the book—is meant to help with this problem. You might not have your own Eudaimonia Machine, but the tips coming up will help you copy what it does in your busy work life. They’ll teach you how to make deep work a real and important part of your day. (Rules 2 to 4 will then help you focus better and fight distractions.)
