In a sad turn of events, Nass died suddenly just six months after this interview.

Don’t take breaks from distractions. Instead, take breaks from focusing.

Powers, William wrote a book called Hamlet’s BlackBerry: Building a Good Life in a Digital Age in 2010.

“Do what Thoreau did”: The author stops using communication devices to reconnect with life. This was talked about on PBS NewsHour on August 16, 2010.

Work like Teddy Roosevelt. Information about Roosevelt’s habits at Harvard comes from a great biography by Edmund Morris called The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt, published in 2001. Pages 61–65 talk about Roosevelt’s college activities and include a letter he wrote to his mom about his work habits. Page 64 says Roosevelt spent about a quarter of his day on schoolwork.

Roosevelt had an “amazing array of interests,” as mentioned on page 64 of the book.

Roosevelt’s book was well received by the Nuttall Bulletin, according to Morris’s notes. Morris also suggests that Roosevelt’s father thought his son was “one of the most knowledgeable” after he published The Summer Birds of the Adirondacks (page 67).

Roosevelt spent a lot of time working at his desk, as shown on page 64.

Memorize a deck of cards. Quotes from Daniel Kilov came from personal messages. Some info about him is from his online bio and an article called “In Melbourne, Memory Athletes Open Up Shop” from 2013. You can find more about his scores on the World Memory Statistics website.

Joshua Foer wrote Moonwalking with Einstein: The Art and Science of Remembering Everything in 2011.

Carey, Benedict wrote about how memory can be like an extreme sport in a 2014 New York Times blog.

For more cool ideas about memory and thinking, check out The Art of Memory by Frances A. Yates. It was first published in 1966, but the 2001 version is easier to read.

Rule #3: Baratunde Thurston called himself “the most connected man in the world” but said “I was burnt out.” By the end of his first week offline, he felt “the end came too soon.” This info and his story come from an article called “#UnPlug” in the July–August 2013 issue of Fast Company.
