To make things easier, when you plan your Internet time after work, it’s okay to use your phone for quick important stuff during your offline periods. For example, texting a friend to decide where to meet for dinner or looking up the restaurant’s location on your phone is fine. But besides these practical exceptions, when you’re supposed to be offline, put your phone away, don’t answer texts, and don’t use the Internet.

Like at work, if the Internet is a big part of how you relax in the evening, that’s totally fine. Just make sure you plan long blocks of Internet time. The main idea isn’t to cut down how much time you spend on distractions but to give yourself lots of chances to practice not switching to them right away when you get bored.

One time this can be really hard is when you have to wait, like standing in line at a store. If you’re in an offline block then, you need to get ready to feel a little bored and just sit with your thoughts. Waiting without doing anything is kind of a new thing these days, but it’s really good practice for training your focus.

To wrap up, if you want to do deep work, you have to train your brain to handle distractions without always giving in. You don’t have to stop distractions completely; you just need to stop them from taking over your attention. Scheduling Internet time like this helps you get your focus back.

Work Like Teddy Roosevelt

If you went to Harvard College in 1876–1877, you probably would’ve noticed a skinny, loud, and super energetic freshman named Theodore Roosevelt. If you got to know him, you’d notice something surprising.

On one hand, he seemed to be interested in everything. One classmate said he had an “amazing array of interests.” According to his biographer Edmund Morris, Roosevelt liked boxing, wrestling, working out, dance lessons, poetry readings, and was obsessed with studying nature. His landlord wasn’t happy that Roosevelt kept dissecting and stuffing animals in his room. Roosevelt was so into nature that he even published his first book, The Summer Birds of the Adirondacks, the summer after his freshman year.
