Carl Jung became one of the most important thinkers of the twentieth century. There are many reasons why he became successful. In this book, though, I want to focus on one skill he had that helped him a lot: Deep Work. Deep work means doing professional tasks with full focus, without any distractions, which pushes your brain to work at its best. This kind of work helps you create new ideas, get better at what you do, and is hard for others to copy.

Deep work is needed to get the most out of your brain right now. Research in psychology and brain science shows that the mental effort needed for deep work is also what helps you get smarter and better. So, deep work was exactly what Jung needed to be noticed in a tough field like psychiatry in the early 1900s.

The phrase “deep work” is mine, not something Jung used, but he acted like he understood the idea. He even built a stone tower in the woods to help him focus better on his work. This took time, energy, and money, and it meant he spent less time on other tasks. As Mason Currey says, Jung often went to Bollingen and spent less time with his patients, “Although he had many patients who relied on him, Jung was not shy about taking time off.” Even though deep work was hard to fit in, it was important for his goal of changing the world.

If you look at other famous people from history, you’ll see that deep work was important for them too. For example, Michel de Montaigne, a writer from the 1500s, worked in a private library he built in his castle. Mark Twain wrote much of The Adventures of Tom Sawyer in a small shed on his summer farm, so quiet that his family had to blow a horn to call him for meals.

More recently, think about Woody Allen, a screenwriter and director. Between 1969 and 2013, he made forty-four films that got twenty-three Oscar nominations—that’s amazing. During all that time, he never used a computer. Instead, he wrote on an old manual typewriter, avoiding distractions from electronics. Peter Higgs, a famous physicist, also worked in total isolation and was so private that reporters couldn’t find him after he won a Nobel Prize.
