In a tragic twist, Nass died unexpectedly just six months after this interview.
 
 Don’t Take Breaks from Distraction. Instead Take Breaks from Focus.
 
 Powers, William. Hamlet’s BlackBerry: Building a Good Life in a Digital Age. New York: Harper, 2010.
 
 “Do what Thoreau did”: “Author Disconnects from Communication Devices to Reconnect with Life.” PBS NewsHour, August 16, 2010. http://www.pbs.org/newshour/bb/science-july-dec10-hamlets_08-16/.
 
 Work Like Teddy Roosevelt The general information about Theodore Roosevelt’s Harvard habits comes from Edmund Morris’s fantastic biography: Morris, Edmund. The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt. New York: Random House, 2001. In particular, pages 61–65 include Morris’s catalog of Roosevelt’s collegiate activities and an excerpt from a letter from Roosevelt to his mother that outlines his work habits. The specific calculation that Roosevelt dedicates a quarter of his typical day to schoolwork comes from page 64.
 
 “amazing array of interests”: from page 64 of Morris, Rise of Theodore Roosevelt.
 
 The positive receipt of Roosevelt’s book by the Nuttall Bulletin comes from Morris’s endnotes: in particular, note 37 in the chapter titled “The Man with the Morning in His Face.” “one of the most knowledgeable”: from page 67 of Morris, Rise of Theodore Roosevelt. I ascribed this assessment to Morris, though this is somewhat indirect, as Morris here is actually arguing that Roosevelt’s father, after the publication of The Summer Birds of the Adirondacks, must have felt this about his son.
 
 “The amount of time he spent at his desk”: from page 64 of Morris, Rise of Theodore Roosevelt.
 
 Memorize a Deck of Cards Quotes from Daniel Kilov came from personal correspondence. Some background on his story was taken from his online biography, http://mentalathlete.wordpress.com/about/, and Lieu Thi Pham. “In Melbourne, Memory Athletes Open Up Shop.” ZDNet, August 21, 2013. http://www.smartplanet.com/blog/global-observer/inmelbourne-memory-athletes-open-up-shop/. More on Kilov’s scores (memory feats) from his two medalwinning championship bouts can be found on the World Memory Statistics website: http://www.world-memorystatistics.com/competitor.php?id=1102.
 
 Foer, Joshua. Moonwalking with Einstein: The Art and Science of Remembering Everything. New York: Penguin, 2011.
 
 “We found that one of the biggest differences”: Carey, Benedict. “Remembering, as an Extreme Sport.” New York Times Well Blog, May 19, 2014.
 
 For more interesting connections between memorization and general thought, see: The Art of Memory, by Frances A. Yates, which was first published in 1966. The most accessible version seems to be the handsome 2001 reprint by the University of Chicago Press.
 
 Rule #3 “the most connected man in the world”; “I was burnt out”; “By the end of that first week”; “The end came too soon”; and general information about Baratunde Thurston’s experiment: from the Baratunde Thurston article “#UnPlug” that appeared in the July–August 2013 issue of Fast Company.
 
 http://www.fastcompany.com/3012521/unplug/baratunde-thurston-leaves-the-internet.
 
