We often quickly get excited about new digital gadgets and see them as signs of progress and a bold new future.

This focus on the Internet, which some call "Internet-centrism," is what our tech-driven culture looks like today. It’s important to understand this because it helps explain the question at the start. For example, The New York Times has a social media team and pushes its writers, like Alissa Rubin, to act in ways that grab attention online. In a world that revolves around the Internet, this kind of behavior is just accepted. If you don’t go along with everything Internet-related, you become invisible and unimportant, as Postman said. That’s why people got so upset when Jonathan Franzen said novelists shouldn’t tweet. It wasn’t because they knew about book marketing and disagreed, but because it shocked them that someone serious would say social media doesn’t matter. In a tech-focused world, saying that is like burning a flag—it’s seen as disrespectful, not a topic to discuss.

Maybe the best example of this mindset happened to me recently on my way to work at Georgetown. I was waiting to cross Connecticut Avenue behind a truck from a company that handles refrigerated shipping. This business is complicated and tough, needing careful management of workers and routes. It’s very old-school and very different from the trendy tech start-ups we hear about. But what caught my eye was a big sign on the back of the truck saying, “like us on Facebook.” It was probably expensive to put up on all their trucks. 

Deep work, which means focusing on quality, skill, and mastery, is at a big disadvantage in today’s tech culture. Deep work is old-fashioned and not about flashy new technology. In fact, doing deep work often means ignoring a lot of new tech. But deep work is pushed aside for more distracting tech habits, like using social media professionally. This isn’t because deep work is worse, but because we don’t have clear data to compare the two. If we did, our current tech-focused culture might fall apart.

But since we don’t have those clear numbers, we end up putting the Internet on a pedestal, like Morozov warned. So it’s no surprise that deep work can’t keep up with all the noise from tweets, likes, tagged photos, posts, and other online activities that we’re told are important just because they exist.
