Working fewer official hours helps cut out all the extra, unnecessary stuff from the workweek. When people have less time to get things done, they start to value their time more. They become careful about how they spend it, which is a good thing. They don’t waste time on things that don’t really matter. Usually, with fewer hours, people use their time more wisely.

At 37signals, cutting down the workweek mostly got rid of shallow work rather than deep, important work. Because the important work stayed mostly the same, the big tasks still got done. The shallow work, which seems urgent but isn’t really important, turned out to be something they could live without.

This made people wonder what would happen if 37signals went further. If cutting shallow work didn’t hurt results, what if they not only cut it out but also used that extra time for more deep work? Luckily, the company decided to try this bold idea.

Fried liked how tech companies like Google let employees spend 20% of their time on their own projects. But he thought one day a week wasn’t enough for deep focus. “I’d rather have 5 full days in a row than 5 days spread out over weeks,” he said. So, 37signals tried something new: they gave employees the whole month of June off from regular work to focus deeply on their own projects. This meant no meetings, no memos, and no annoying PowerPoint slides. At the end of the month, they held a “pitch day” where employees shared their project ideas.

Fried called the experiment a success in an article for Inc. magazine.

On pitch day, two projects stood out and were quickly put to use: better tools for customer support and a system to visualize data to understand how customers use their products. These projects are expected to bring a lot of value to the company, but they probably wouldn’t have happened without the long, uninterrupted deep work time. These ideas needed many hours of focused effort.

Fried asked, “How can we afford to pause our business for a month to try new ideas? How can we afford not to?” The experiments at 37signals show something important: shallow work takes up a lot of time but is often less important than it seems at the moment.
