The mention of Thurston’s Twitter use is about tweets from March 13, 2014, from the Twitter account @Baratunde.

The phrases “Entertainment was my initial draw,” “[When] I first joined,” and “[I use] Facebook because” come from comments I wrote on two blog posts in fall 2013:  
• “Why I’m (Still) Not Going to Join Facebook: Four Arguments That Failed to Convince Me.”  
• “Why I Never Joined Facebook.”

If you want to know more about Forrest Pritchard and Smith Meadows Farms, check out their website.

The idea of the Law of the Vital Few applied to your internet habits comes from a Malcolm Gladwell talk at the 2013 BookExpo America in New York City. You can find a summary and some video clips in a Huffington Post article from May 2013.

Quotes like “I don’t tweet” and “It’s amazing how overly accessible” are from an interview with Michael Lewis in 2010.

The phrase “And now, nearly a year later” is from a 2010 article called “Why Twitter Will Endure” by David Carr in the New York Times.

The saying “Twitter is crack for media addicts” is from a 2010 opinion piece by George Packer on the New Yorker website.

The Law of the Vital Few is talked about in many places. Richard Koch’s 1998 book, The 80/20 Principle, helped bring the idea back in business. Tim Ferriss’s 2007 book, The 4-Hour Workweek, made it popular with tech entrepreneurs. Wikipedia has a good summary about this idea on the Pareto principle page.

If you want to quit social media, there’s info about Ryan Nicodemus’s “packing party” on The Minimalists website.

The average number of Twitter followers comes from a 2012 article in the Telegraph called “Average Twitter User Is an American Woman with an iPhone and 208 Followers.”

Keep in mind, this number might not be exact. A few people have tons of followers, which makes the average higher. The middle number would probably be lower. Also, many people signed up for Twitter just to try it or read tweets, without trying to get followers or post tweets. If we only look at people who actually tweet and want followers, their follower counts would be higher.
