Introduction

In the Swiss area of St. Gallen, near the north side of Lake Zurich, there is a village called Bollingen. In 1922, the psychiatrist Carl Jung picked this place to start building a quiet spot to work. He first made a simple two-story stone house called the Tower. After coming back from a trip to India, where he saw people adding meditation rooms to their homes, he added a private office to his place. Jung said about this room, “In my retiring room I am by myself. I keep the key with me all the time; no one else can come in unless I say it’s okay.”

In a book called Daily Rituals, writer Mason Currey looked at different sources about Jung to show how he worked at the Tower. Currey says Jung woke up at seven in the morning. After a big breakfast, he spent two hours writing without any distractions in his private office. In the afternoons, he often meditated or took long walks in the countryside around him. There was no electricity in the Tower, so when it got dark, light came from oil lamps and heat came from the fireplace. Jung went to bed by ten at night. He said, “The feeling of rest and renewal that I had in this tower was strong from the very start.”

It might seem like Bollingen Tower was just a vacation home, but if you look at Jung’s work at that time, it’s clear that the lakeside place was not meant to be a break from work. In 1922, when Jung bought the property, he couldn’t afford to take a vacation. Just one year before, in 1921, he had published a big book called Psychological Types. This book showed many differences between Jung’s ideas and those of his old friend and teacher, Sigmund Freud. Disagreeing with Freud in the 1920s was a brave choice. To support his book, Jung needed to stay sharp and keep writing smart articles and books that explained and grew his new ideas about psychology.

Jung was busy with lectures and counseling work in Zurich. But being busy wasn’t enough for him. He wanted to change how people understood the unconscious mind. To do this, he needed more focused and deep thinking than he could do in his busy city life. Jung went to Bollingen, not to run away from work, but to make his work better.
